- - -
Let $X$ be the number of objects in a sample (selected without replacement from a small population) that have the attribute of success; then, $X$ is called a hypergeometric random variable. The probability distribution of $X$ is called the hypergeometric distribution.

The population has $N$ items, $k$ which are successes. That leaves $N-k$ items in the population to be failures.

**Population:**

| Type of Object | Number |
| ---- | ---- |
| Success | $k$ |
| Failure | $N-k$ |
| Total | $N$ |
The sample contains $n$ items, $x$ of which are successes. That leaves $n-x$ items in the sample to be failures.

**Sample**:

| Type of Object | Number |
| ---- | ---- |
| Success | $x$ |
| Failure | $n-x$ |
| Total | $n$ |
Using counting and probability rules, we can develop the following probability distribution for the number of successes in the sample
$f(x)=P$(the sample contains $x$ items of type $Success$)
$$f(x)=\frac{{k \choose x}{N-k \choose n-x}}{N \choose n}$$
for $x=0,1, \dots, min\{n,k\}$

There are $k$ successes in the population, from which we want to choose $x$ to be in our sample, $k \choose x$. There are $N-k$ failures in the population from which we want to choose $n-x$ to be in our sample, ${N-k \choose n-x}$. Generally, the experiment consists of taking a population of $N$ items and choosing $n$ of them without replacement, $N \choose n$

### Mean and Variance of a Hypergeometric
Let $p=\frac{k}{N}$, then
$$E(X)=np$$
$$Var(X)=\frac{N-n}{N-1}npq$$
where $q=1-p$

Notice that $p$ is the proportion of objects in the population that are successes. Note also that the formulas for mean and variance of the hypergeometric are very similar to the mean and variance for a binomial expect for the addition of the term $\frac{N-n}{N-1}$, which is called the finite population correction factor.
