## Critical Regions and Critical Values

Since our test statistic has a Standard Normal Distribution, our procedure for calculating $p$-values is the same as in the case for testing a claim concerning a single population mean with the population variance known.

If the alternative is greater than $(>)$, the critical region will be to the right of the center. This is a one-tailed test, specifically, a _right-tiled test_.

For the one-sided test, the critical value will cut off an area equal to the significance level, 0.05 in this case. For a right-tailed test, we will always have a positive critical value, which cuts off an area in the right tail of the curve.

### Examples

#### Example 1 (Right-Tailed)

**Problem:** Find the critical value for a right-tailed test with $\alpha=0.05$ and the Standard Normal Distribution as the sample distribution.

**Solution:**
- The critical value separates an area of $\alpha=0.05$ in the right tail of the Standard Normal Distribution
- To look up the corresponding $Z$-value, subtract $\alpha$ from $1$ to find the area to the left of the critical value: $1-\alpha=1-0.05=0.95$.
- Look inside the body of [Table A.3](./Resources/Table_A3.pdf) for the closest value to $0.9500$ and find $0.9495$ and $0.9505$, which have corresponding $Z$-values of $1.64$ and $1.65$
- Calculating the average of these two $Z$-values gives us the _positive_ critical value $Z=\frac{1.64+1.65}{2}=1.645$

If the alternative is less than $(<)$, the critical region will be to the left of the center. This is a one-tailed test, specifically, _left-tailed test_.

- - -

For a left-tailed test, we will always have a negative critical value, which cuts off an area in the left tail of the curve.

- - -

#### Example 2 (Left-Tailed)

**Problem:** Find the critical value for a left-tailed test with $\alpha=0.05$ and the Standard Normal Distribution as the sample distribution.

**Solution:**
- The critical value separates an area of $\alpha=0.05$ in the left tail of the Standard Normal Distribution.
- Look inside the body of [Table A.3](./Resources/Table_A3.pdf) for the closest value to $0.0500$ and find $0.0505$ and $0.0495$, which have corresponding $Z$-values of $-1.64$ and $-1.65$.
- Calculating the average of these two $Z$-values gives us the _negative_ critical value $Z=\frac{(-1.64)+(-1.65)}{2}=-1.645$

- - -

If the alternative is not equal $(\neq)$, the critical region will be divided into two pieces: one in the left tail, and one in the right tail. Each piece of the critical region will have an area that is half of the significance level. This is a two-tailed test.

For the two-tailed test, there are two critical values, and the critical region includes a piece in the left tail and a piece in the right tail, each with an area that is half of the significance level. 

> [!Note]
> 
> It's important to know that
> 
> 1. The critical value for the right tail will be the positive version of the left critical value
> 2. These two critical values correspond to the critical values from finding a confidence interval

- - -

#### Example 3 (Two-Tailed)

**Problem:** Find the critical value for a two-tailed test with $\alpha=0.05$ and the Standard Normal Distribution as the sample distribution.

**Solution:** A two-tailed test has two critical values, one negative and one positive. 
- The negative critical value separates an area of $\frac{\alpha}{2}=\frac{0.05}{2}=0.025$ in the left tail of the Standard Normal Distribution.
- Look inside the body of [Table A.3](./Resources/Table_A3.pdf) for the closest value to $0.0250$ and find an exact match with the corresponding $Z$-values of $-1.96$, and using symmetry, $+1.96$.

