## Hypothesis Test for $p$: $p$-value Method

Here, we are going to repeat the same examples on the previous page but using the $p$-value method instead of the traditional method.

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses.
2. Choose and calculate the appropriate test statistic.
3. Compute the $p$-value based on the value of the test statistic and appropriate sampling distribution.
4. Make a statistical decision by comparing the $p$-value to the significance level of the test.
5. State conclusions

### Examples

#### Example 1

**Problem:** In a presidential election, 308 out of 611 voters surveyed said that they voted for the candidate who won (based on data from ICR Survey Research Group). Use an 0.01 significance level to test the claim that among all voters, the percentage who believe they voted for the winning candidate is equal to 43%, which is the actual percentage of votes for the winning candidate. What does the result suggest about voter perception?

**Solution:**

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses.
   
$$H_{0}:p=0.43$$
$$H_{1}:p\neq 0.43$$
   
2. Choose and calculate the appropriate test statistic.
   
$$Z=\frac{\hat{p}-p_{0}}{\sqrt{ \frac{p_{0}q_{0}}{n} }}=\frac{\frac{308}{611}-0.43}{\sqrt{ \frac{(0.43)(0.57)}{611} }}=3.69$$
   
3. Compute the $p$-value:
   
- This is a two-tailed test since the alternative is not equals. Since our test statistic is positive, we want to first find the are in the right tail that corresponds to $Z=3.69$.
- From [Table A.3](./Resources/Table_A3.pdf), we see that $Z>3.50$, the area to the left of $Z$ is $0.9999$, which means the area in the right tail is $1-0.9999=0.0001$.
- Our $p$-value is two times this area, which is $2 \times 0.0001=0.0002$.
- Therefore, the corresponding areas in the tails of the curve cut off by $Z=-3.69$ and $Z=3.69$
   
4. Make a statistical decision by comparing the $p$-value to the significance level of the test.
   
Since. the $p$-value of $0.0002$ is less than the significance level of $0.01$, we _reject_ the null hypothesis.
   
5. State conclusions

There is sufficient evidence that at a 1% level of significance to warrant rejection of the claim that the percentage of voters who believe they voted for the winning candidate is 43%. This suggests that voter perception is skewed when compared with actual election results.

Notice: we got the same results using the $p$-value method as traditional method

#### Example 2

**Problem:** Suppose that in a poll, subjects were asked if they believe there is solid evidence that the Earth is getting warmer. Among 1501 respondents, 275 said that they believed there is evidence of global warming. Use a 5% significance level to test the claim that more than 20% of the population believes that global warming is occurring. Assume that all three of the requirements for a hypothesis test of a proportion are met.

**Solution:**

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses:

$$H_{0}:p=0.20$$
$$H_{1}:p>0.20$$

2. Choose and calculate the appropriate test statistic:

$$Z=\frac{\hat{p}-p_{0}}{\sqrt{ \frac{p_{0}q_{0}}{n} }}=\frac{\frac{275}{1501}-0.20}{\sqrt{ \frac{(0.20)(0.80)}{1501} }}=-1.62$$

3. Compute the $p$-value:

- This is a right-tailed test since the alternative is greater than. So, the $p$-value will be the area to the right of the test statistic (because it is a right-tailed test).
- [Table A.3](./Resources/Table_A3.pdf) tells us that the area to the left of $Z=-1.62$ is $0.0526$, so the area to the right of $Z=-1.62$ is $1-0.0526=0.9474$.

4. Make a statistical decision:

Since the $p$-value of $0.9474$ is larger than the significance level of 0.05, we _fail to reject_ the null hypothesis.

5. State conclusions:

There is not sufficient evidence at a 5% level of significance to support the claim that more than 20% of the population believes there is solid evidence for global warming.

- - -

> [!Notice]
> 
> For both examples, we got the same results using the $p$-value method as the traditional method.