## Null and Alternative Hypotheses

### Example 1

**Problem:** The Mars Corporation published on their website in 2008 that 24% of M&Ms in each bag were blue. You never seem to have many blue M&M's in your bag, and claim that it is in fact less than 24%. You have a bag of M&Ms in front of you, how can you use this to test your claim?

Conduct a hypothesis test to evaluate the claim that there are less than 24% blue M&Ms in each bag. The first step is to write hypotheses. For every hypothesis test, you will have two hypotheses.

- - -

The **null hypothesis** represented by $H_{0}$ is a statement that a population parameter is equal to some value. It is often thought of as something generally accepted to be true unless proven otherwise. It is essentially “innocent until proven guilty."

The **alternative hypothesis** represented by $H_{A}$ or $H_{1}$ is the statement that the parameter has a value that differs from the null hypothesis. If you formulate your own claim, it will always be the alternative hypothesis. It is often thought of as what you are trying to prove (if you can provide evidence that the null hypothesis is wrong that is).

If we are looking just to see if the parameter **differs** from the value in the null hypothesis (that is, it could be greater or less), then we perform what is called a **_two-tailed test._** The alternative hypothesis for a two-sided test will use not equal to ($\neq$):

$$H_{1}:p\neq 0.6$$

if we are looking ONLY to see if the parameter is _greater than_ the value in the null hypothesis, then we perform a _one-tailed_ test:

$$H_{1}:p>0.6$$

- - - 

**Solution:** For our example of the blue M&Ms, the null hypothesis would be that the proportion of blue M&Ms is equal to the value published on the website, that is the accepted value:

$$H_{0}:p=0.24$$

There are three possibilities for the alternative hypothesis:

$$H_{1}:p\neq 0.24$$
$$H_{1}:p < 0.24$$
$$H_{1}:p > 0.24$$

As we said above, you think you never get that many blue M&Ms in a bag, so our claim to test is that the true proportion of blue M&Ms is less than 0.24. This is a one-tailed alternative, which corresponds to the alternative hypothesis:

$$H_{1}:p<0.24$$

### Example 2

**Problem:** Suppose that the acceptable rate of errors for DNA sequencing is 1%. You are testing a new technology and you think it does not have this error rate, but do not know enough about it to claim that the error rate is higher or lower. You want to test that the error rate is not 1%. This is an example of two-tailed alternative. The null and alternative hypotheses would be:

$$H_{0}:p=0.01$$
$$H_{1}:p\neq 0.01$$

The hypothesis test uses information from a sample to gather evidence to determine whether the null hypothesis holds true in the population. If there is enough evidence to disprove the null hypothesis, then we _reject_ the null. If not, then we _fail to reject_ the null.
