## Hypothesis Test for $p$: Traditional Method

### Steps to Conduct a Traditional Method Hypothesis Test

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses.
2. Determine the fixed significance level, $\alpha$, of the test.
3. Choose and calculate the appropriate test statistic. Establish the critical region and critical value(s) based on $\alpha$.
4. Make the statistical decision - if the test statistic falls in the critical region, _reject_ $H_{0}$; otherwise (it does not fall in the critical region), _fail to reject_ $H_{0}$.
5. State conclusions

### Examples

#### Example 1

**Problem:** In a presidential election, 308 out of 611 voters surveyed said that they voted for the candidate who won (based on data from ICR Survey Research Group). Use a significance level of $\alpha=0.01$ to test the claim that among all voters, the percentage who believe they voted for the winning candidate is equal to 43%, which is the actual percentage of votes for the winning candidate. What does the result suggest about voter perception?

**Solution:**

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses

$$H_{0}:p=0.43$$
$$H_{1}:p\neq0.43$$

2. Determine the fixed significance level, $\alpha$:

$$\alpha=0.01$$

3. Calculate the test statistic:

$$Z=\frac{\hat{p}-p_{0}}{\sqrt{ \frac{p_{0}q_{0}}{n} }}=\frac{\frac{308}{611}-0.43}{\sqrt{ \frac{(0.43)(0.57)}{611} }}=3.70$$

Find the critical region and critical value:

- This is two-tailed test since the alternative is _not equal_ $(\neq)$. 
- Therefore, the critical value will cutoff an area of $\frac{\alpha}{2}=\frac{0.01}{2}=0.005$ in each tail.
- [Table A.3](./Resources/Table_A3.pdf) shows that $Z=-2.575$ cuts off an area of $0.005$ in the left tail of the curve.
- So, our critical value are $-2.575$ and $2.575$

Our test statistic, $Z=3.70$, falls _within_ our critical (rejection) region

4. Make the statistical decision:

Since the test statistic falls is beyond $2.575$, it _within_ the critical region, so we _reject_ $H_{0}$.

5. State conclusions:

There is sufficient evidence at a 1% level of significance to warrant rejection of the claim that the percentage of voters who believe they voted for the winning candidate is 43%. This suggests that voter perception is skewed when compared with actual election results.

#### Example 2

**Problem:** Suppose that in a poll, subjects were asked if they believe there is solid evidence that the Earth is getting warmer. Among 1501 respondents, 275 said that they believed there is evidence of global warming. Use a 5% significance level to test the claim that more than 20% of the population believes that global warming is occurring. Assume that all three of the requirements for a hypothesis test of a proportion are met.

**Solution:**

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses.

$$H_{0}:p=0.20$$
$$H_{1}:p>0.20$$
   
2. Determine the fixed significance level, $\alpha$:

$$\alpha=0.05$$
   
3. Calculate the test statistic.

$$Z=\frac{\hat{p}-p_{0}}{\sqrt{ \frac{p_{0}q_{0}}{n} }}=\frac{\frac{275}{1501}-0.20}{\sqrt{ \frac{(0.20)(0.80)}{1501} }}=-1.63$$

Find the critical region and critical value:

- This is right-tailed test since the alternative is greater than. Therefore, the critical value with cutoff an area of $\alpha=0.05$ in the right tail.
- [Table A.3](./Resources/Table_A3.pdf) shows that $Z=1.645$ cuts off an area of $1-0.05=0.9500$ on the left side of the curve, which corresponds to an area of $0.05$ in the right tail.
- So, our critical value is $Z=1.645$.

4. Make the statistical decision:

Since the test statistic does _not_ fall within the critical region, we _fail to reject_ $H_{0}$.

5. State conclusions

There is not sufficient evidence at a 5% level of significance to support the claim that more than 20% of the population believes there is solid evidence for global warmning.

