## Chi-Squared: Critical Regions & Values

As stated, critical values and the shape of the critical region will depend on whether we are doing  a one-tailed or two-tailed test, the significance level, and the sampling distribution - in the case of testing a claim concerning a single population variance, the sample distribution is a Chi-Squared Distribution with $\nu=n-1$ degrees of freedom. We will use [Table A.5](./Resources/Table_A5.pdf) to find critical values for testing a claim concerning a single population variance.

If the alternative is greater than $(>)$, the critical region will be an area to the _right_. This is one-tailed test, specifically, a _right-tailed test_.

If the alternative is less than $(<)$, the critical region will be an area to the left. This is a one-tailed test, specifically, a _left-tailed test_.

For the one-sided test, the critical value with cut off an area equal to the significance level. For a right-tailed test, we will cut off an area in the right tail of the curve. For a left-tailed test, we will cut off an area in the left tail of the curve.

If the alternative is not equals $(\neq)$, the critical region will be divided into two pieces: one in the left tail, and one in the right tail. Each piece of the critical region will have an area that is half of the significance level. This is a two-tailed test.

### Examples

#### Example 1 (Right-Tailed Test)

**Problem:** Find the critical value for a right-tailed test with $\alpha=0.05$, $n=10$, and the Chi-Squared Distribution as the sample distribution.

**Solution:**

[Table A.5](./Resources/Table_A5.pdf) gives us critical values of Chi-Squared Distribution for $\alpha=$ the area to the right of the critical value.

$\nu-n-1=10-1=9$

Since we want to find a critical value for a right-tailed test, $\alpha=0.05$ is the are on our right tail. In [Table A.5](./Resources/Table_A5.pdf), we look up the critical value using the column $\alpha=0.05$ and the row of $\nu=9$.

We find the critical value $\chi^2=16.919$.

#### Example 2 (Left-Tailed Test)

**Problem:** Find the critical value for a left-tailed test with $\alpha=0.05$, $n=10$, and the Chi-Squared Distribution as the sample distribution.

**Solution:**

[Table A.5](./Resources/Table_A5.pdf) gives us critical values of Chi-Squared Distribution for $\alpha=$ the area to the right of the critical value.

$\nu-n-1=10-1=9$

Since we want to find a critical value for a left-tailed test, $\alpha=0.05$ is the are on our left tail. In [Table A.5](./Resources/Table_A5.pdf), we look up the critical value using the column $1-\alpha=1-0.05=0.95$ and the row of $\nu=9$.

We find the critical value $\chi^2=3.325$.

#### Example 3 (Two-Tailed Test)

**Problem:** Find the critical value for a two-tailed test with $\alpha=0.05$, $n=10$, and the Chi-Squared Distribution as the sample distribution.

**Solution:**

[Table A.5](./Resources/Table_A5.pdf) gives us critical values of Chi-Squared Distribution for $\alpha=$ the area to the right of the critical value.

$\nu-n-1=10-1=9$

- Since we want to find a critical value for a two-tailed test, $\alpha=\frac{0.05}{2}=0.025$ is the are in each of tails.
- In [Table A.5](./Resources/Table_A5.pdf), we look up the right-hand critical value using the column of $\frac{\alpha}{2}=0.025$ and the row $\nu=9$.
	- Here, we find the critical value $\chi^2=19.023$.
- In [Table A.5](./Resources/Table_A5.pdf), we look up the left-hand critical value using the column of $1-\frac{\alpha}{2}=1-\frac{0.05}{2}=0.975$ and the row $\nu=9$
	- This leads us to the critical value $\chi^2=2.700$

Therefore, the critical values are $\chi^2=2.700$ and $\chi^2=19.023$

