## $p$-value Method Example

### Steps to Conduct a $p$-value Method Hypothesis Test

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses
2. Choose and calculate an appropriate test statistic.
2. Compute the $p$-value based on the value of the test statistic and appropriate sampling distribution.
3. Make a statistical decision by comparing the $p$-value to the significance level of the test.
4. State conclusions

### Example

**Problem:** Aflotoxins produced by mold on peanut crops in Virginia must be monitored. A researcher claims that the variance of the levels has changed and is no longer equal to 4.2 ppm. A sample of 61 batches of peanuts reveals levels of 24.17 ppm, on average, with a variance of 4.25 ppm. Test the researcher's claim using the $p$-value method and a 0.05 level of significance.

**Solution:**

1. **State the null and alternative hypotheses:**

$$H_{0}:\sigma^2=4.2$$
$$H_{1}:\sigma^2\neq 4.2$$

2. **Choose and calculate the appropriate test statistic:**

$n=61$

$s^2=4.25$

Therefore,

$$\chi^2=\frac{(n-1)s^2}{\sigma_{0}^2}=\frac{60(4.25)}{4.2}=60.714$$

3. **Compute the $p$-value:**

- This is two-tailed test and the $p$-value is _two times_ the area to the right of the test statistic under the Chi-Squared Distribution curve with $\nu=n-1=61-1=60$ degrees of freedom.
- Searching for $\chi^2=60.714$ in [Table A.5](./Resources/Table_A5.pdf) with $\nu=60$, we find that it falls between $59.335$ and $65.226$ which have areas to the right of $0.50$ and $0.30$, respectively.
- The area to the right of $60.714$ is between $0.30$ and $0.50$, so the $p$-value is between $2 \times 0.30=0.60$ and $2 \times 0.50=1$.
- Therefore,

$$0.50<p<1$$

4. **Make a statistical decision:**

The decision is to _fail to reject_ $H_{0}$ since the $p$-value is _greater than_ our level of significance, $\alpha=0.05$.

5. **State conclusions:**

The sample data does _not_ support the claim that the variance of the levels has changed and is no longer equal to 4.2 ppm.

- - -

Using [Table A.5](./Resources/Table_A5.pdf), we were not able to find the exact $p$-value for the test statistic, $\chi^2=60.714$, however we were able to find a range of values for the $p$-value that allowed us to make the decision. This is not an efficient way to approach the $p$-value method and other technology is preferred when available. 

Using my TI84, finding the exact $p$-value for the example above requires the following steps:

1. Press `2nd`
2. Press `vars`
3. Scroll down and select `x^2cdf(`
4. Input
	- lower limit ($\chi^2$): $60.714$
	- upper limit: $1E99$
	- $\nu$: $60$
6. Press `Paste`
7. Press `Enter`

The calculator gives us $p=0.45$.

