## Chi-Squared: $p$-values

We have defined a $p$-value as the probability of getting a value of the test statistic that is "_at least as extreme_" as the one representing the sample data, under the assumption that the null hypothesis is true. The null hypothesis is rejected if the $p$-value is very small, specifically if the $p$-value is less than or equal to $\alpha$ the decision is to reject $H_{0}$.

For most problems, we will _not_ be able to use Table A.5 to find an exact $p$-value, but instead a range of values for the $p$-value. This is similar to how we found a range of values for a $p$-value for a $t$ Distribution.

Recall the way we find the p-value depends on the alternative hypothesis:
- If the alternative is _greater than_, $p$-value = area to the _right_ of the test statistic.
- If the alternative is _less than_, $p$-value = area to the _left_ of the test statistic.
- If the alternative is _not equal to_, $p$-value = _two times_ the area beyond the test statistic (in the direction moving away from the center of the curve).

### Examples

#### Example 1 ($>$)

**Problem:** Find the $p$-value when $H_{1}:\sigma^2>0.4,~n=8,$ and the test statistic is $\chi^2=15.221$.

**Solution:**

The alternative is _greater than_, so the $p$-value is equal to the area to the _right_ of the tests statistic.

$\nu=n-1=8-1=7$

Looking for $\chi^2=15.221$ in the body of [Table A.5](./Resources/Table_A5.pdf) where $\nu=7$, we find it lies between $14.067$ and $16.013$, therefore it has an area to the right between $0.05$ and $0.025$.

Thus,

$$0.025<p<0.05$$

> [!Note]
> 
> If $\alpha=0.05$, we would reject $H_{0}$
> If $\alpha=0.01$, we would fail to reject $H_{0}$
> If $\alpha=0.05$, we would not be able to make a decision using [Table A.5](./Resources/Table_A5.pdf).

#### Example 2 ($<$)

**Problem:** Find the $p$-value when $H_{1}:\sigma^2<6,~n=12,$ and the test statistic is $\chi^2=3.369$.

**Solution:**

The alternative is _less than_, so the $p$-value is equal to the area to the _left_ of the tests statistic.

$\nu=n-1=12-1=11$

Looking for $\chi^2=3.369$ in the body of [Table A.5](./Resources/Table_A5.pdf) where $\nu=11$, we find it lies between $3.609$ and $3.053$ and has an area to the right between $0.99$ and $0.98$. Therefore, we know that the area to the left of the test statistic $\chi^2=3.369$ is also between $1-0.99=0.01$ and $1-0.98=0.02$.

Thus,

$$0.01<p<0.02$$

> [!Note]
> 
> If $\alpha=0.05$, we would reject $H_{0}$
> If $\alpha=0.01$, we would fail to reject $H_{0}$

#### Example 3 ($\neq$)

**Problem:** Find the $p$-value when $H_{1}:\sigma^2\neq 15,~n=6,$ and the test statistic is $\chi^2=15.999$.

**Solution:**

The alternative is _not equal to_, so the $p$-value is equal to _two times_ the area beyond the test statistic (in the direction moving farther away from the center of the curve).

$\nu=n-1=6-1=5$

Looking for $\chi^2=15.999$ in the body of [Table A.5](./Resources/Table_A5.pdf) where $\nu=5$, we find it lies between $15.086$ and $16.750$, therefore it has an area to the right between $0.01$ and $0.005$. Two times these values is between $0.02$ and $0.01$.

Thus,

$$0.01<p<0.02$$

> [!Note]
> 
> If $\alpha=0.05$, we would reject $H_{0}$
> If $\alpha=0.01$, we would fail to reject $H_{0}$.




