## Traditional Method Examples

### Steps to Conduct a Traditional Method Hypothesis Test

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses.
2. Determine the fixed significance level, $\alpha$, of the test.
3. Choose and calculate the appropriate test statistic. Establish the critical region and critical value(s) based on $\alpha$.
4. Make the statistical decision - if the test statistic falls in the critical region, _reject_ $H_{0}$; if the test statistic does not fall in the critical region, _fail to reject_ $H_{0}$.
5. State conclusions

### Examples

#### Example 1

**Problem:** A manufacturer of car batteries claims that the life of the company's batteries is approximately normally distributed with a standard deviation equal to 0.9. A consumer advocacy group claims that the standard deviation is higher than 0.9. A random sample of 10 of these batteries has a standard deviation of 1.2 years. Test the consumer advocate's claim using a 0.05 level of significance and the Traditional Method.

**Solution:**

1. **State the null and alternative hypotheses:**

$$H_{0}:\sigma^2=0.81$$
$$H_{1}:\sigma^2>0.81$$

2. **Determine the fixed significance level, $\alpha$:**

$$\alpha=0.05$$

3. **Calculate the test statistic:**

$n=10$

$s^2=1.2^2=1.44$

Therefore,

$$\chi^2=\frac{(n-1)s^2}{\sigma_{0}^2}=\frac{9(1.44)}{0.81}=16$$

Find the critical region and critical value:

Since this is a left-tailed test, we can use [Table A.5](./Resources/Table_A5.pdf) with $\nu=n-1=10-1=9$ and $\alpha=0.05$. 

There, we find the critical value of $\chi^2=16.969$.

4. **Make the statistical decision:**

Since the test statistic does _not_ fall within the critical region, we _fail to reject_ $H_{0}$.

 5. **State conclusions**

There is _not_ sufficient evidence that at a 5% level of significance to support the claim the the standard deviation is higher than 0.9.

#### Example 2

**Problem:** Past experience indicates that the time required for high school seniors to complete a standardized test is a normal random variable with a standard deviation of 6 minutes. A teacher claims that the standard deviation has decreased over time and is now less than 6 minutes. A random sample of test times of 20 high school seniors has a standard deviation of 4.51. Test the teacher's claim using a 0.10 level of significance and the Traditional Method.

**Solution:**

1. **State the null and alternative hypotheses:**

$$H_{0}:\sigma^2=36$$
$$H_{1}:\sigma^2>36$$

2. **Determine the fixed significance level, $\alpha$:**

$$\alpha=0.10$$

3. **Calculate the test statistic:**

$n=20$

$s^2=4.51^2=20.3401$

Therefore,

$$\chi^2=\frac{(n-1)s^2}{\sigma_{0}^2}=\frac{19(20.3401)}{36}=10.735$$

Find the critical region and critical value:

Since this is a right-tailed test, we can use [Table A.5](./Resources/Table_A5.pdf) with $\nu=n-1=20-1=19$ and $1-\alpha=1-0.10=0.90$. 

There, we find the critical value of $\chi^2=11.651$.

The critical region includes all test statistics _smaller_ than $11.651$.

4. **Make the statistical decision:**

Since the test statistic falls _within_ the critical region, we _reject_ $H_{0}$.

 5. **State conclusions**

There is _sufficient_ evidence that at a 10% level of significance to support the claim the the variance has decreased over time and is now less than 6 minutes .

