
### Nested Quantifiers
Nested quantifiers are necessary to express the meaning of sentences in English, and are important concepts in computer science and mathematics.

**Example**
"Every real number has an inverse" can be represented as:
$\forall x \exists y (x+y=0)$

We can also think of nested propositional functions

$\forall x \exists y (x+y=0)$ can be viewed as $\forall x Q(x)$ where $Q(x)$ is $\exists y P(x,y)$ where $P(x,y)$ is $(x+y=0)$

### Order of Quantifiers

$\forall x \forall y P(x,y)$ is logically equivalent to $\forall y \forall x P(x,y)$

However, $\forall x \exists y P(x,y)$ is **NOT** equivalent to $\exists y \forall x P(x,y)$

**Examples:**
Let $P(x,y)$ be the statement "$x+y=y+x$." Assume $U$ is the real numbers. Then $\forall x \forall y P(x,y)$ and $\forall y \forall x P(x,y)$ have the **same truth value**.
- Since we're using the same quantifiers, the order does not matter. For every x and every y, the statement $x+y=y+x$ will be satisfied.

Let $Q(x,y)$ be the statement "$x+y=0$." Assume that $U$ is the real numbers. Then $\forall x \exists y Q(x,y)$ is **true**, but $\exists y \forall x Q(x,y)$ is **false**.
- For every x, there is at least 1 y that will satisfy $x+y=0$, but for at least 1 y, not every x will suffice.

Let $U$ be the real numbers. Define $P(x,y):x*y=0$
What is the truth value of the following:

$\forall x \forall y P(x,y)$ 
**False**, not every x and y will satisfy $x*y=0$

$\forall x \exists y P(x,y)$
**True**, for every x, there exists at least 1 y that will satisfy $x*y=0$ (When y = 0)

$\exists x \forall y P(x,y)$
**True**, for at least 1 x, every y will satisfy $x*y=0$ (When x = 0)

$\exists x \exists y P(x,y)$
**True**, for at least 1 x, there is at least 1 y that will satisfy $x*y=0$

### Quantifications of Two Variables
| Statement | When True? | When False? |
| ---- | ---- | ---- |
| $\forall x \forall y P(x,y)$<br>$\forall y \forall x P(x,y)$ | $P(x,y)$ is true for every pair $x,y$ | There is a pair $x, y$ for which $P(x,y)$ is false |
| $\forall x \exists y P(x,y)$ | For every x, there is a y for which $P(x,y)$ is true | There is an x such that $P(x,y)$ is false for every y |
| $\exists x \forall y P(x,y)$ | There is an x for which $P(x,y)$ is true for every y | For every x there is a y for which $P(x,y)$ is false |
| $\exists x \exists y P(x,y)$<br>$\exists y \exists x P(x,y)$ | There is a pair $x, y$ for which $P(x,y)$ is true | $P(x,y)$ is false for every pair $x,y$ |

### Translating Nested Quantifiers Into English
**Example**: Translate the statement $\forall x (C(x)\lor \exists y (C(y) \land F(x,y)))$ where
- $C(x)$ = "x has a computer,"
- $F(x,y)$ = "x and y are friends,"
- $U$ = all students in your school

**Solution:**
Every student in your school has a computer or has a friend that has a computer.

### Translating Mathematical Statements Into Predicate Logic
**Example**: Translate "The sum of two positive integers is always positive" into a logical expression.

**Solution:**
1. Rewrite the statements to make the implied quantifiers and domains explicit:
	- "For every two integers, if they are both positive, then the sum of these integers is positive"
2. Introduce the variables x and y, and specify the domain to obtain:
	- "For all positive integers x and y, $x+y$ is positive"
3. Translate
	- $\forall x \forall y ((x>0) \land (y>0) \to (x+y>0))$
where the domain of both variables is all integers


