- - -
### Anatomy of a Zero-Day
A Zero-Day is a software vulnerability that is previously unknown and unpatched, and therefore can be exploited by a threat actor to gain entry to a target network.

Hackers spend days, weeks, and months to find an exploitable flaw.

Once they do, instead of reporting the vulnerability information to the software vendor, they will likely sell it to a broker, a black market vendor of Zero-Day exploits.

A broker collects these exploits to build their reputation on the dark web. They often list them on secret forums, acting as a matchmaker between exploit and attacker.

- - -
### Combatting a Zero-Day
In a network protected by FireEye, NX series appliances can detect the intrusion, block the attack, and alert sysadmins of the attempted breach. PX series appliances allow the responders to freeze and rewind time, isolating the packet captures from the earliest moments of the attack. Two-way sharing with the dynamic threat intelligence cloud enables FireEye to analyze the attack. 

- - -
### Additional Info
Stuxnet used several zero-day attacks to gain access to Iranian nuclear plant controllers. A zero-day vulnerability in MS Internet Explorer was exploited in Aurora to break into Google and Adobe servers.

The US Government has announced that it will disclose any zero-day vulnerabilities found by Federal Government agencies. This is in response to an accusation that the US Government uses such vulnerabilities. Recently, the black market for such vulnerabilities has led to a rampage in their number.

Once a zero-day vulnerability has been identified, it is no longer considered a zero-day vulnerability.

- CVE-2011-1255 “Microsoft Internet Explorer Time Element Remote Code Execution Vulnerability”
    - was a zero-day vulnerability until 2011.
- CVE-2016-9176 “Stack buffer overflow in the send.exe and receive.exe components of Micro Focus Rumba 9.4 and earlier could be used by local attackers or attackers able to inject arguments to these binaries to execute code.”
    - was a zero-day vulnerability until 2016.