## SQL Injection Overview

[This](http://www.professormesser.com/security-plus/sy0-401/sql-injection-xml-injection-and-ldap-injection-2/) Professor Messer video below gives a brief overview of code injection and SQL injection. 

### Video Notes

#### Code Injection

- Code injection
	- Adding your own information into a data stream
- Enabled because of bad programming
	- The application should properly handle input and output
- So many different data types
	- HTML, SQL, XML, LDAP, etc.

#### SQL Injection

- SQL - Structured Query Language
	- The most common relational database management system language
- SQL Injection
	- Modifying SQL requests
	- Your application shouldn't allow this

#### XML Injection and LDAP Injection

- XML - Extensible Markup Language
	- A set of rules for data transfer and storage
- XML Injection
	- Modifying XML requests - a good application will validate

- LDAP - Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
	- Created by the telephone companies
	- Now used by almost everyone
- LDAP Injection
	- Modify LDAP requests to manipulate application results

### Example

Let’s suppose we have some PHP code on my web-server that takes a username and password from a web form and uses it to issue a MySQL query.

```php
$uname = $_POST['username']; 
$pwd = $_POST['password']; 
$query = "SELECT * FROM sid_user_details WHERE username='" . $uname . "' AND password='" . $pwd . "'";
```

If we enter `x` as the username and `x' OR 1=1 limit 1 --` as the password, then the `SELECT` statement will be executed as

```sql
`SELECT * FROM sid_user_details WHERE username='x' AND password=**'x' OR 1=1 limit 1 --** ';`
```

This results in the `WHERE` condition being always true (because of `OR 1=1`). The key in SQL injection attacks is the use of the `'` character, which will end the current string and then allow any characters that follow to be interpreted as part of the SQL statement.

- - -

How can we prevent these types of attacks? Much of this is based on properly validating input and preventing data from web forms from directly modifying SQL statements. OWASP has provided a library that can help programmers write lower-risk applications. See [OWASP](https://owasp.org/www-project-enterprise-security-api/) for more information

Databases may also be susceptible to insider attacks, such as _privilege abuse_. The attacker (a malicious insider) has legitimate access to the database, but attacks the database in order to get elevated privileges (i.e., being able to run commands that the user is not normally authorized to do).