## Null and Alternative Hypotheses

**Example:** A contractor wishes to _lower_ heating bills by using a special type of insulation in houses. She knows that average cost of monthly heating bills without the special type of insulation is $78. Let's look at how the researcher will set up to test her claim.

The first step is to write hypotheses. For every hypothesis test, you will have two hypotheses:

## Null Hypothesis

The _null hypothesis_ represented by $H_{0}$ is a statement that a population parameter is equal to some value. It is often thought of as something generally accepted to be true unless proven otherwise. It is essentially “innocent until proven guilty."

## Alternative Hypothesis

The _alternative hypothesis_ represented by $H_{A}$ or $H_{1}$ is the statement that the parameter has a value that differs from the null hypothesis. If you formulate your own claim, it will always be the alternative hypothesis. It is often thought of as what you are trying to prove (if you can provide evidence that the null hypothesis is wrong that is).

#### Two-Tailed Test (Not Equal To)

If we are looking just to see if the parameter _differs_ from the value in the null hypothesis (that is, it could be greater or less), then we perform what is called a _two-tailed test_. The alternative hypothesis for a two-sided test will not use equal to ($\neq$):

$$H_{1}:\mu \neq \mathrm{value}$$

#### One-Tailed Test (Greater Than)

If we looking ONLY to see if the parameter is _greater than_ the value in the null hypothesis, then we perform a _one-tailed test_:

$$H_{1}:\mu > \mathrm{value}$$

#### One-Tailed Test (Less Than)

Similarly, if we are looking ONLY to see if the parameter is _less than_ the value in the null hypothesis, this is also a _one-tailed test_:

$$H_{1}:\mu < \mathrm{value}$$

## Answering our Question

For our example of lowing heating bills, the null hypothesis would be that the average cost of monthly heating bills remains unchanged is still $78:

$$H_{0}:\mu = 78$$

There are three possibilities for the alternative hypothesis:

$$H_{1}:\mu \neq 78$$
$$H_{1}:\mu < 78$$
$$H_{1}:\mu > 78$$

As we said above, the contractor wishes to _lower_ heating bills, so her claim to test is that the true population mean with the special type of insulation is less than $78. This is a one-tailed alternative, which corresponds to the alternative hypothesis:

$$H_{1}:\mu < 78$$

We call this type of hypothesis a _"left-tailed"_ hypothesis test.

## Additional Examples

### Example 2

**Problem:** A chemist invents an additive to _increase_ the life an automobile battery. The mean lifetime of the automobile battery without the additive is 36 months. What type of alternative test is represented and what are the null and alternative hypotheses?

**Solution:** This is another example of a one-tailed alternative. The null and alternative hypotheses would be:

$$H_{0}:\mu = 36$$

$$H_{0}:\mu > 36$$

This is called a _"right-tailed"_ hypothesis test.

### Example 3

**Problem:** A medical researcher is interested in finding out whether a new medication will have any undesirable side effects. The researcher is particularly concerned with the pulse rate of patients who take the medication. Will the pulse rate increase, decrease, or remain unchanged after a patient takes the medication?

**Solution:** The researcher knows that the mean pulse rate for the population under study is 82 bpm. This is an example of a two-tailed alternative. The null and alternative hypotheses would be:

$$H_{0}:\mu = 82$$

$$H_{1}:\mu \neq 82$$

This is called a _"two-tailed"_ hypothesis test.

> [!note]
>
> The hypothesis test uses information from a sample to gather evidence to determine whether the null hypothesis holds true in the population. If there is enough evidence to disprove the null hypothesis, then we **REJECT** the null. If not, then we **failed to reject** the null. We'll learn more about this later in the module.

