## General Concept

A _statistical hypothesis_ is a claim or statement about a property of one or more populations. A _hypothesis test_ is a procedure for testing such a claim. Like estimation, hypothesis testing uses data from a sample to make inference about the population it came from. The methods used for hypothesis testing are based on the _Rare Event Rule for Inferential Statistics:_

> [!Rare Event Rule]
>
> If, under a given assumption, the probability of a particular observed event is extremely small, we conclude that the assumption is probably not correct.

This mean that when we evaluate a claim, if it is very improbable given the information we have, we conclude that it is not likely to be true.

### Example 1

**Problem:** A leading mobile phone service provider claims that their network coverage is greater than that of their competitor, which covers 97% of the continental United States. Suppose that we conduct an experiment where we randomly pick 1000 sets of geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude) in the continental US, and then test for services in each location. Suppose we assume the company's claim is accurate. Without using an formal statistical methods and only using common sense and the Rare Event Rule, what would we conclude about this assumption if there were services in 960 of these locations?

**Solution:** We would expect, if the claim is correct, to have a service in more than 970 of the 1000 locations. The result of 960 locations is close to 970, so we should not conclude that the claim is incorrect. With service in 97% or more of the locations, we could sample 1000 locations and have 960 with service by chance if the claim is correct.

### Example 2

**Problem:** A leading mobile phone service provider claims that their network coverage is greater than that of their competitor, which covers 97% of the continental United States. Suppose we conduct an experiment where we randomly pick 1000 sets of geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude) in the continental US, and then test for services in each location. Suppose we being by assuming that the company's claim is accurate. Without using any formal statistical methods and only using common sense and the Rare Event Rule, what would we conclude about this assumption if there were service in 100 of these locations.

**Solution:** The results of 100 in 1000 locations having service is extremely unlikely to occur by chance if more than 97% of the US has coverage. We could explain this occurrence in one of two ways: either an extremely rare event has occurred by chance, or the claim that the coverage is more than 97% is false. Since there would be an extremely low probability of only seeing 100 sites with coverage if the claim of more than 97% coverage is true, we conclude that the claim is false.

In this module, we'll learn how to formally evaluate claims using statistical inference.
