## Permutations and Combinations

### Permutations

**Definition:** A permutation of a set of distinct objects is an ordered arrangement of these objects. An ordered arrangement of $r$ elements of a set is called an **$r$-permutation**.

**Example:** Let $S=\{1,2,3\}$

- The ordered arrangement $3,1,2$ is a permutation of $S$
- The ordered arrangement $3,2$ is a $2$-permutation of $S$

The number of $r$-permutations of a set with $n$ elements in denoted by $P(n,r)$
  - The $2$-permutations of $S=\{1,2,3\}$ are $1,2;~1,3;~2,1;~2,3;~3,1;$ and $3,2$. Hence, $P(3,2)=6$

#### A Formula for the Number of Permutations

**Theorem 1:** If $n$ is a positive integer and $r$ is an integer with $1 \leq r \leq n$, then there are

$$P(n,r)=n(n-1)(n-2)\dots(n-r+1)$$

$r$-permutations of a set with $n$ distinct elements.

**Proof:** Use the product rule. The first element can be chosen in $n$ ways. The second can be chosen in $n-1$ ways, and so on until there are $(n-(r-1))$ ways to choose the last element.

> [!note]
>
> $P(n,0)=1$ since there is only one way to order zero elements

**Corollary 1:** If $n$ and $r$ are integers with $1 \leq r \leq n$, then

$$P(n,r)=\frac{n!}{(n-r)!}$$

#### Solving Counting Problems by Counting Permutations

#### Example 1

**Problem:** How many ways are there to select a first-prize winner, a second price winner, and a third-prize winner from 100 different people who have entered a contest?

**Solution:** $P(100,3)=100 \times 99 \times 98=970,200$

Therefore, there are $970,200$ ways.

#### Example 2

**Problem:** Suppose that a saleswoman has to visit eight different cities. She must begin her trip in a specified city, but she can visit the other seven cities in any order she wishes. How many possible orders can the saleswoman use when visiting these cities?

**Solution:** The first city is chosen, and the rest are ordered arbitrarily. Hence, the orders are

$$7!=7 \times 6 \times 5 \times 4 \times 3 \times 2 \times 1=5040$$

Thus, if she wants to find the tour with the shortest path that visits all cities, she must consider $5040$ paths.

#### Example 3

**Problem:** How many permutations of the letters $ABCDEFGH$ contain the string $ABC$?

**Solution:** We solve this problem by counting the permutations of six objects, $ABC,D,E,F,G$, and $H$:

$$6!=6 \times 5 \times 4 \times 3 \times 2 \times 1=720$$

- - -

### Combinations

**Definition:** An $r$-combination of elements of a set is an unordered selection of $r$ elements from the set. Thus, an $r$-combination is simply a subset of the set with $r$ elements.

- The number of $r$-combinations of a set with $n$ distinct elements is denoted by $C(n,r)$. The notation $n \choose r$ is also used and is called a **binomial coefficient**.

**Example:** Let $S$ be the set $\{a,b,c,d\}$. Then, $\{a,c,d\}$ is a $3$-combination set from $S$. It is the same as $\{d,c,a\}$ since the order does not matter.

  - $C(4,2)=6$ because the $2$-combinations of $\{a,b,c,d\}$ are the six subsets $\{a,b\},~\{a,c\},~\{a,d\},~\{b,c\},~\{b,d\}$, and $\{c,d\}$.

#### Combinations Formula

**Theorem 2:** The number of $r$-combinations of a set with $n$ elements, where $n \geq r \geq 0$, equals

$$C(n,r)=\frac{n!}{(n-r)!r!}$$

**Proof:** By the product rule, $P(n,r)=C(n,r) \times P(r,r)$. Therefore,

$$C(n,r)=\frac{P(n,r)}{P(r,r)}=\frac{\frac{n!}{(n-r)!}}{\frac{r!}{(r-r)!}}=\frac{n!}{(n-r)!r!}$$

#### Combinations Examples

#### Example 1

**Problem:** How many ways are there to select five players from a 10-member tennis team to make a trip to a match at another school?

**Solution:** By Theorem 2, the number of combinations is

$$C(10,5)=\frac{10!}{5!5!}=252$$

#### Example 2

**Problem:** A group of 30 people have been trained as astronauts to go on the first mission to Mars. How many ways are there to select a crew of six people to go on this mission?

**Solution:** By Theorem 2, the number of possible crews is

$$C(30,6)=\frac{30!}{6!24!}=593,775$$

#### Example 3

**Problem:** How many poker hands of five cards can be dealt from a standard deck of 52 cards? Also, how many ways are there to selected 47 cards from a deck of 52 cards?

**Solution:** Since the order in which the cards are dealt does not matter, the numbers of five card hands is

$$C(52,5)=\frac{52!}{5!47!}=\frac{52 \times 51 \times 50 \times 49 \times 48}{5 \times 4 \times 3 \times 2 \times 1}=26 \times 17 \times 10 \times 49 \times 12=2,598,960$$

The different ways to select 47 cards from 52 is

$$C(52,47)=\frac{52!}{47!5!}=C(52,5)=2,598,960$$

which is a special case of a general result $\dots \to$

**Corollary 2:** Let $n$ and $r$ be non-negative integers with $r \leq n$. Then, $C(n,r)=C(n,n-r)$.

**Proof:** From Theorem 2, it follows that

$$C(n,r)=\frac{n!}{(n-r)!r!}$$

and

$$C(n,n-r)=\frac{n!}{(n-r)![n-(n-r)]!}=\frac{n!}{(n-r)!r!}$$

Hence, $C(n,r)=C(n,n-r)$.

This result can be proved without using algebraic manipulation $\dots \to$

### Combinatorial Proofs

**Definition:** A combinatorial proof of an identity is a proof that uses one of the following methods:

- A **double counting proof** uses counting arguments to prove that both sides of an identity count the same objects, but in different ways.
- A **bijective proof** shows that there is a bijection between the sets of objects counted by the two sides of the identity.

Here are two combinatorial proofs that

$$C(n,r)=C(n,n-r)$$

when $r$ and $n$ are non-negative integers with $r<n$:

- Bijective Proof: Suppose that $S$ is a set with $n$ elements. The function that maps a subset $A$ of $S$ to $\overline A$ is a bijection between the subsets of $S$ with $r$ elements and the subsets with $n-r$ elements. Since  there is a bijection between the two sets, they must have the same number of elements.
- Double Counting Proof: By definition, the number of subsets of $S$ with $r$ elements is $C(n,r)$. Each subset $A$ of $S$ can also be described by specifying which elements are not in $A$, i.e. those which are in $\overline A$. Since the complement of a subset of $S$ with $r$ elements has $n-r$ elements, there are also $C(n,n-r)$ subsets of $S$ with $r$ elements.
