## Variances Unknown

All examples so far for sample size assume the population variances are known. In reality, this is rarely the case. However, when the population variances are not known, then the choice of sample size is _NOT_ straightforward because the test statistic follows a _non central $t$ Distribution_. We can use Tables A.8 and A.9 to identify the minimum sample size needed.

### Table A.8 Sample Size for the $t$-Test of the Mean

Table A.8 is used to calculate the minimum sample size for testing a claim concerning a population mean when the population variance is unknown. To use Table A.8, you need to use the following parameters:

- $\alpha$ is the significance level or probability of a Type I error
- $\beta=1-\mathrm{Power}$ is the probability of a Type II error
- Some estimate of $\sigma$ is available
- $\delta$ is the difference between $\mu_{0}$ and the fixed alternative
- $\Delta=\frac{|\delta|}{\sigma}$

### Table A.9 Sample Size for the $t$-Test of the Difference between Two Means

Table A.9 is used to calculate the minimum sample size for testing a claim concerning the difference between two population mens when the population variances are unknown. To use Table A.9, you need to use the following parameters:

- $\alpha$ is the significance level or probability of a Type I error
- $\beta=1-\mathrm{Power}$ is the probability of a Type II error
- Some estimate of the common variance $\sigma$ is available
	- Note: Since both variances are unknown, we can assume they are equal and unknown, i.e. an unknown common variance
- $\delta$ is the difference between $d_{0}$ and the fixed alternative
- $\Delta=\frac{|\delta|}{\sigma}$

### Example

**Problem:** In comparing the performance of two catalysts on the effect of a reaction yield, a two-sample $t$-test is to be conducted with $\alpha=0.05$. The variances in the yields are considered to be the same for the two catalysts. How large a sample for each catalyst is needed to test the hypothesis

$$H_{0}:\mu_{1}=\mu_{2}$$
$$H_{1}:\mu_{1}\neq \mu_{2}$$

if it is essential to detect a difference of $0.8\sigma$ between the catalysts with probability $0.9$?

**Solution:**

This is a two-sided or "Double-Sided" test

- $\alpha=0.05$
- $\mathrm{Power}=1-\beta\to \beta=1-\mathrm{Power}=1-0.90=0.10$
- $\delta=0.8\sigma$
- $\Delta=\frac{0.8\sigma}{\sigma}=0.8$

Therefore, a sample size of 34 observations for each catalyst if the test is to reject the null hypothesis 90% of the time when, in fact, the difference between the two mean reaction yields is at least $0.8\sigma$.

> [!Comments]
> 
> Note: The hypotheses in the above example could be re-written as
> 
> $$H_{0}:\mu_{1}-\mu_{2}=0$$
> $$H_{1}:\mu_{1}-\mu_{2}\neq 0$$
> 
> Note: We did not need an estimate of $\sigma$ in the example because the specified alternative, $\delta$, is given in terms of $\sigma$ so the unknown variance cancels in the calculate of $\Delta$.

#### Practical Situations

In practical situations, it might be difficult to force a researcher to make a commitment on information from which the value of $\Delta$ can be found. $\Delta$ quantifies the kind of difference between the means that the scientist considers important and is closely related to the margin of error selected in our sample size for confidence interval calculations.

If the sample size is based on a choice of $\delta$ that is a small fraction of $\sigma$, the resulting sample size may be quite large compared to what the study may allow. In other words, funding and resources may limit the ability to sample enough observations.

