## Reasoning

We have briefly discussed the relationships between sample size, the significance level ($\alpha$), and the power of a test.

Remember, there are two type of errors that can be made in hypothesis testing.

**Type I error** occurs when we reject the null hypothesis when it is actually true.

**Type II error** occurs when we fail to reject the null hypothesis when it is actually false.

|                        | $H_{0}$ true | $H_{0}$ false |
| ---------------------- | ------------ | ------------- |
| Reject $H_{0}$         | Type I Error | Correct!      |
| Fail to Reject $H_{0}$ | Correct!     | Type II Error |

We do not actually know whether we have committed an error or not, but we can talk about the probability that we have made an error in hypothesis testing.

The _probability of committing a Type I error_ is the same as the significance level of the test, and is represented by $\alpha$:

$$P(\mathrm{reject}~H_{0}~|~H_{0}~\mathrm{true})=\alpha$$

The _probability of committing a Type II error_ is the same as the significance level of the test, and is represented by $\beta$:

$$P(\mathrm{fail~to~reject~}H_{0}~|~H_{0}~\mathrm{false})=\beta$$

We call the quantity ($1-\beta$) the _power_ of the test - this is the probability that we correctly reject the null hypothesis when it is false:

$$P(\mathrm{reject}~H_{0}~|~H_{0}~\mathrm{false})=1-\beta=\mathrm{Power}$$

The probability of these errors are related to each other and the sample size:

- As $\alpha$ decreases (less chance of a Type I error), $\beta$ increases (more chance of a Type II error), which causes Power to decrease (an undesired effect).
- Generally, Type I and Type II errors are related. A decrease in the probability of one results in an increase in the probability of the other.
- As $n$ increases, the probability of Type I and Type II errors will decrease.
- If a researcher wants to decrease both $\alpha$ and $\beta$, they should increase their sample size

Typically when we conduct a test, we set $\alpha$ beforehand, and then the value of $\beta$ and Power are determined by the significance level we set and the sample size. Under practical circumstances, the experiment should be planned with a choice of sample size made prior to the data-collecting process if possible