- - -
#### Mathematical Induction vs. Strong Induction
There isn't much difference between the two besides the Basis Step. Using strong induction, we'll choose a few different cases instead of one, and we'll stop choosing when one of the cases can be proved from the previous case.

- - -
### Strong Induction
**Definition:** To prove that $P(n)$ is true for all positive integers $n$, where $P(n)$ is a propositional function, complete two steps:
- **Basis Step:** Verify that the proposition $P(1)$ is true
- **Inductive Step:** Show the conditional statement $[P(1)\land P(2)\land\dots \land P(k)]\to P(k+1)$ holds for all positive integers $k$.

> [!note]
> Strong induction is sometimes called the _second principle of mathematical induction_ or _complete induction_.

### Example
**Example:** Prove that every amount of postage of 12 cents or more can be formed using just 4-cent and 5-cent stamps.

**Solution:**
Let $P(n)$ be the proposition that postage of $n$ cents can be formed using 4-cent and 5-cent stamps.
- **Basis Step:** $P(12),P(13),P(14),$ and $P(15)$ hold
	- $P(12)$ uses three 4-cent stamps
	- $P(13)$ uses two 4-cent stamps and one 5-cent stamp
	- $P(14)$ uses one 4-cent stamp and two 5-cent stamps
	- $P(15)$ uses three 5-cent stamps
- **Inductive Step:** The inductive hypothesis states that $P(j)$ holds for $12\leq j\leq k$, where $k\geq 15$. Assuming the inductive hypothesis, it can be shown that $P(k+1)$ holds.
	- Using the inductive hypothesis, $P(k-3)$ holds since $k-3\geq 12$. To form postage of $k+1$ cents, add a 4-cent stamp to the postage for $k-3$ cents.

Hence, $P(n)$ holds for all $n\geq 12$