## $t$ Distn: Critical Regions and Values

If the population standard deviation is _unknown_, then the test statistic and critical values are $t$ values from a $t$ Distribution with $\nu=n-1$ degrees of freedom using [Table A.4](./Resources/Table_A4.pdf). Our general definition of critical values remain the same:

**Left-Tailed Test**
- The critical region, with an area _equal to_ $\alpha$, will be on the left side of the mean.
- There is _one negative critical value_ separating the critical region from the non-critical region.

**Right-Tailed Test**
- The critical region, with an area _equal to_ $\alpha$, will be on the right side of the mean.
- There is _one positive critical value_ separating the critical region from the non-critical region

**Two-Tailed Test**
- $\alpha$ must be _divided by 2_; one-half of the area will be to the right of the mea, and one-half will be to the left of the mean.
- There are _two critical values, one positive and one negative_, separating the critical region from the non-critical region.

> [!note]
> Table A.3 gives areas to the LEFT for the Standard Normal Distribution, however, [Table A.4](./Resources/Table_A4.pdf) gives areas to the RIGHT for $t$ Distributions with varying degrees of freedom.

In order to use [Table A.4](app://obsidian.md/Resources/Table_A4.pdf):
1. Identify the _row_ corresponding to the degrees of freedom $\nu=n-1$.
2. Identify the _column_ corresponding to the area to the right of your critical value by
	- Determining if your are testing a one-tailed or two-tailed test:
		- If it is a one-tailed test (left- or right-tailed), then use an area to the right equal to $\alpha$.
		- If it is a two-tailed test, then use an area to the right equal to $\frac{\alpha}{2}$.
3. Use the type of test to determine the sign of your critical value(s)
	- A left-tailed test has a negative critical value
	- A right-tailed test has a positive critical value
	- A two-tailed test has two critical values, one negative and one positive

After the critical value(s) is identified, use the critical value(s) and the test statistic to make the decision to either _reject_ or _fail to reject_ the null hypothesis.
- _Reject_ $H_{0}$ if the test statistic falls within the critical region
- _Fail to reject_ $H_{0}$ if the test statistic does not fall within the critical region

### Examples

#### Example 1

**Problem:** Find the critical $t$ value for a right-tailed $t$ test with 11 degrees of freedom and $\alpha=.05$. Then, assume the test statistic was found to be $t=2.01$ and make the decision to reject or fail to reject the null hypothesis, $H_{0}$.

**Solution:** 
1. Use the _row_ corresponding to degrees of freedom = 11
2. Use the _column_ corresponding to $\alpha=.05$
	- We picked $\alpha$ because a right-tailed test is a one-tailed test
3. A right-tailed test has one positive critical value, therefore the critical $t$ value is $+1.796$

To make the decision, compare the test statistic $t=2.01$ to the critical region. The test statistic $t=2.01$ is greater than $+1.796$, therefore the test statistic _is in_ the critical region. The decision is to _reject_ $H_{0}$.

#### Example 2

**Problem:** Find the critical $t$ value for a left-tailed $t$ test with 11 degrees of freedom and $\alpha=.01$. Then, assume the test statistic was found to be $t=.88$ and make the decision to reject or fail to reject the null hypothesis, $H_{0}$.

**Solution:**
1. Use the _row_ corresponding to degrees of freedom = 11
2. Use the _column_ corresponding to $\alpha=.01$
	- We picked $\alpha$ because a left-tailed test is a one-tailed test
3. A left-tailed test has one negative critical value, therefore the critical $t$ value $-2.718$

To make the decision, compare the test $t=.88$ to the critical region. The test statistic $t=.88$ is greater than $-2.718$, therefore the test statistic is _not_ in the critical region. The decision to _fail to reject_ $H_{0}$.

#### Example 3

**Problem:** Find the critical $t$ value for a two-tailed $t$ test with 11 degrees of freedom and $\alpha=.20$. Then, assume the test statistic was found to be $t=-4.24$ and make the decision to reject of fail to reject the null hypothesis, $H_{0}$.

**Solution:**
1. Use the _row_ corresponding to degrees of freedom = 11
2. Use the _column_ corresponding to $\frac{\alpha}{2}=\frac{.20}{2}=.10$
	- We picked $\frac{\alpha}{2}$ because this is a two-tailed test
3. A two-tailed test has two critical values, one positive and one negative, therefore the critical $t$ values are $-1.363$ and $+1.363$

To make the decision, compare the test statistic $t=-4.24$ to the critical region. The test statistic $t=-4.24$ is less than $-1.363$, therefore the test statistic _is in_ the critical region. The decision is to 0.

- - -

> [!note]
> 
> In each of the examples, the degrees of freedom was given. Often, you will be given the sample size, $n$, instead, in which case you need to calculate the degrees of freedom $\nu=n-1$ before using [Table A.4](./Resources/Table_A4.pdf)


