## $p$-value Method: Sigma Unknown

### Steps to Conduct a $p$-value Method Hypothesis Test

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses
2. Choose and calculate am appropriate test statistic
3. Compute the $p$-value based on the value of the test statistic and appropriate sampling. distribution
4. Make a statistical decision by comparing the $p$-value to the significance level of the test
5. State conclusions

### Example

**Problem:** A physician claims that joggers' maximal volume oxygen uptake is greater than the average of all adults. A sample of 15 joggers has a mean of 40.6 milliliters per kilogram (ml/kg) and a standard deviation of 6 ml/kg. If the average of all adults is 36.7 ml/kg, is there enough evidence to support the physician's claim at $\alpha=.05$? Use the $p$-value method.

**Solution:**

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses:

$$H_{0}:\mu=36.7$$

$$H_{1}:\mu>36.7$$

2. Choose and calculate the appropriate test statistic:

Since the population standard deviation is _not known_, this is a $t$ test.

$$t=\frac{\overline x - \mu_{0}}{\frac{s}{\sqrt{ n }}}$$

$$t=\frac{40.6-36.7}{\frac{6}{\sqrt{ 15 }}}=2.517$$

3. Compute the $p$-value:

This is a right-tailed test. Using [Table A.4](./Resources/Table_A4.pdf) with a degrees of freedom of $\nu=15-1=14$ to find the range for our $t$ value $2.517$, we find it falls between $2.145$ and $2.624$, corresponding to $\alpha=.025$ and $\alpha=.01$. 

4. Make a statistical decision:

The decision is to _reject_ $H_{0}$ since the $p$-value is less than $.05$.

5. State Conclusions:

The sample data _supports_ the claim that the joggers' maximal volume oxygen uptake is greater than 36.7 ml/kg.

- - -

Using [Table A.4](./Resources/Table_A4.pdf), we were not able to find the exact $p$-value, only a range of where it lies. For precise calculations, I'll use my TI-84 Plus. Using the values from this example:

1. Press `STAT`
2. Press `TESTS`
3. Press `2:T-Test`
4. Input
	- $\mu_{0}$ (Hypothesized Mean): $36.7$
	- $\overline x$ (Sample Mean): $40.6$
	- $Sx$ (Sample Standard Deviation): $6$
	- $n$ (Sample Size): $15$
	- For $\mu:\mu>\mu_{0}$ (since the alternative hypothesis tests if the mean is greater)
5. Press `Calculate`
6. Press `Enter`

The calculator gives us $p=.0123$.