## Interval Estimation

It is very unlikely that a point estimator, even an unbiased point estimator, will be EXACTLY equal to the unknown population parameter for a given sample no matter how efficient. The larger the sample size, the better the estimate, but it is still unreasonable to expect a single value estimate to be exactly equal to the unknown population parameter it is trying to estimate. The idea here is to remember that the estimator is still a random variable.

It is often preferable to determine a range of values used to estimate a parameter instead of a single point estimate. Such an interval is called an **interval estimate.** Let $\hat{\theta}_{L}$ be the lower limit and $\hat{\theta}_{U}$ be the upper limit for estimating an unknown parameter $\theta$.

$$\hat{\theta}_{L}<\theta<\hat{\theta}_{U}$$

$\hat{\theta}_{L}$ and $\hat{\theta}_{U}$ depend on the value $\hat{\theta}$ for a particular sample and the sampling distribution of $\hat{\theta}$. For example, a random sample of "light" beer might produce a caloric content interval from 105 to 110. We would expect to find. the true average caloric content for light beer within these values. The lower and upper limits, 105 and 110, depend on the computed sample mean x-bar and the sampling distribution of $\overline x$. The larger the sample size is the smaller the variance of $\overline x$ will be, which will consequently mean that our interval estimate will be better or shorter in this case: the length of an interval estimate indicates the accuracy of a point estimate.

It would be much better to be able to say that the average caloric content of light beer is expected to be between 105 and 110 calories than stating that the average caloric content of light been is expected to be between 85 and 130. The shorter interval is more accurate.

Different samples yield different values of $\hat{\theta}$ and, therefore, different values for $\hat{\theta}_{L}$ and $\hat{\theta}_{U}$. Consequently, these endpoints of the interval are also random variables. From the sampling distribution of $\hat{\theta}$, we shall be able to determine $\hat{\theta}_{L}$ and $\hat{\theta}_{U}$ such that $P(\hat{\theta}_{L}<\theta<\hat{\theta}_{U})$ is equal to a specific value.

A **confidence interval** is a specific interval estimate with the property that

$$P(\hat{\theta}_{L}<\theta<\hat{\theta}_{U})=1-\alpha$$

where $0<\alpha<1$. 

Here, $1-\alpha$ is called the **confidence coefficient**, the **degree of confidence**, or the **confidence level**, and $\hat{\theta}_{L}$ and $\hat{\theta}_{U}$ are called the lower and upper **confidence limits**. The confidence level is typically expressed as a percent.