## Sample Size for Means

Suppose we want to collect sample data in order to estimate some population mean. The question is _how many_ sample items must be obtained so that we are confident in our results?

To do so, we want to control out value of the margin of error $E$ by choosing an appropriate minimum sample size. If we look at the formula for $E$ and solve for $n$, we get

$$E=Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}\frac{\sigma}{\sqrt{ n }}~ ~ ~\mathrm{Given}$$

$$\downarrow\mathrm{Solve~for~n}$$

$$n=\left[ \frac{Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}\times \sigma}}{E} \right]^2$$

To use this formula, a researcher decides the confidence level to be used for the study and choose the maximum margin of error they are okay with, i.e. how close they should be to the true population mean.

The value of the population standard deviation $\sigma$ can come from a previous study, a pilot study, or using $\sigma=\frac{\mathrm{Range}}{4}$ (Range Rule of Thumb).

When computing sample size, we must remember that we can only sample in whole numbers ($1,2,3,4,\dots$). Therefore, if the computed sample size $n$ is not a whole number, round (or bump) the value of $n$ up to the next larger whole number.

Using this formula will provide a researcher with the minimum sample size needed to guarantee that the sample statistic will be within the specified margin of error with a certain confidence.

### Example

**Problem:** Assume that we want to estimate the mean IQ score for the population of statistics students. How many statistics students must be randomly selected for IQ tests if we want $95\%$ confidence that the sample mean is within $3$ IQ points of the population mean? Assume the population standard deviation is $15$.

**Solution:**

The phrase **"How many statistics students must be randomly selected..."** indicates that we need to solve a _minimum_ sample size. Also, we are estimating a mean which is key language to choosing the correct formula.

$$n=\left[ \frac{Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}\times \sigma}}{E} \right]^2$$

$95\%\mathrm{~Confidence~Interval}~\to Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}=1.96$ 

$\sigma=15$

The phrase "...within 3 IQ points of the population mean?" means the margin of error will be 3

$E=3$

$$n=\left[ \frac{Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}\times \sigma}}{E} \right]^2=\left[ \frac{1.96(15)}{3} \right]^2=96.04=97$$

Therefore, in order for us to be within $3$ IQ points of the true mean IQ score for the population of statistics students with $95\%$ confidence, we must sample at least $97$ statistics students.

> [!note]
> The reasons we rounded $96.04$ up to $97$ are because
> 
> 1. $96.04$ is the _minimum_ sample size and we cannot go below this number
> 2. We cannot sample $.04$ of a statistics student
>    
> We can always sample more than 97 statistics students, we just cannot sample less than 97 statistics students and be confident we will get the results we want.








