- - -
## Big-Omega Notation

Big-Omega is the opposite of Big-O; instead of looking for the worst case scenario, we'll be looking for the best case scenario for the performance of our algorithm.

**Definition:** Let $f$ and $g$ be functions from the set of integers or the set of real numbers to the set of real numbers. We say that $f(x)$ is $\Omega(g(x))$ if there are positive constants $C$ and $k$ such that $$|f(x)|~ ~ ~ \geq ~ ~ ~ C|g(x)|$$ when $x>k$

$\Omega$ (Big Omega) is the uppercase version of the lowercase Greek letter $\omega$ (Little Omega).

We say that $f(x)$ is "_Big-Omega of $g(x)$_"

### Big-O vs. Big-Omega

Comparing Big-O to Big-Omega,
- **Big-O** gives an _upper bound_ on the growth of a function
- **Big-Omega** gives a _lower bound_ on the growth of a function

> [!note]
> Big-Omega tells us that a function grows at least as fast as another.
> 
> $f(x)$ is $\Omega(g(x))$ if and only if $g(x)$ is $O(f(x))$

### Big-Omega Notation Example

**Example:** Show that $f(x)=8x^3+5x^2+7$ is $\Omega(g(x))$ where $g(x)=x^3$

**Solution:** $f(x) = 8x^3+5x^2+7~ ~ ~ \geq ~ ~ ~ 8x^3$ for all positive real numbers $x$.

Does this mean that $g(x)=x^3$ is $O(8x^3+5x^2+7)?$ Yes.

- - -
## Big-Theta Notation
Big-Theta **combines Big-O and Big-Omega** by providing both upper and lower bounds on the growth of a function.

**Definition:** Let $f$ and $g$ be functions from the set of integers or the set of real numbers to the set of real numbers. The function $f(x)$ is $\Theta(g(x))$ if $f(x)$ is $O(g(x))$ and $f(x)$ is $\Omega(g(x))$.

$\Theta$ (Big Theta) is the uppercase version of the lowercase Greek letter $\theta$ (Theta).

We say that $f(x)$ is "Big-Theta of $g(x)$" , "of order $g(x)$", and that $f(x)$ and $g(x)$ "are of the same order".

$f(x)$ is $\Theta(g(x))$ if and only if there exists constants $C_{1},C_{2},$ and $k$ such that $$C_{1}g(x)<f(x)<C_{2}g(x)$$ if $x>k$

This follows from the definitions of Big-O and Big-Omega.

### Big-Theta Notation Examples
**Example 1:** Show that the sum of the first $n$ positive integers is $\Theta(n^2)$.

**Solution:** 
Let $f(n)=1+2+\dots+n$ 

We have already shown that $f(n)$ is $O(n^2)$

To show that $f(n)$ is $\Omega(n^2)$, we need a positive constant $C$ such that $f(n)~ ~>~ ~Cn^2$ for sufficiently large $n$. Summing only the terms greater than $\frac{n}{2}$, we obtain the inequality 
$$1+2+\dots+n~ ~ \geq ~ ~ \left\lceil  \frac{n}{2}  \right\rceil + \left( {\left\lceil  \frac{n}{2}  \right\rceil }+1 \right)+\dots+n$$
$$\geq~ ~ \left\lceil  \frac{n}{2}  \right\rceil  + \left\lceil  \frac{n}{2}  \right\rceil + \dots + \left\lceil  \frac{n}{2}  \right\rceil $$
$$=~ ~ \left( n-{{\left\lceil  \frac{n}{2}  \right\rceil }} +1 \right) \left\lceil  \frac{n}{2}  \right\rceil $$
$$\geq~ ~ \left( \frac{n}{2} \right) \left( \frac{n}{2} \right)=\frac{n^2}{4}$$

Taking $C=\frac{1}{4}$, $f(n) > Cn^2$ for all positive integers $n$. Hence, $f(n)$ is $\Omega(n^2)$ and we can conclude that $f(n)$ is $\Theta(n^2)$.

**Example 2:** Show that $f(x)=4x^2+8x\log x$ is $\Theta(x^2)$

**Solution:**
$3x^2+8x\log x~ ~\leq~ ~11x^2$ for $x>1$ since $0\leq 8x \log x \leq 8x^2$. 
Hence, $3x^2+8x\log x$ is $O(x^2)$.

$x^2$ is clearly $O(3x^2+8x \log x)$. 
Hence, $3x^2+8x \log x$ is $\Theta(x^2)$.




