## Cookie Security

Because cookies are sent in plain text, someone using packet sniffing could capture a user’s cookies. If a web site uses only a cookie as a login, the stolen cookie could be used to simulate the same session by manually setting the cookie. The server can’t tell the difference between the original cookie and the stolen one, so it allows the attacker to access the user’s information. This is called _session hijacking_.

Watch [this video](http://www.professormesser.com/security-plus/sy0-401/cookies-header-manipulation-and-session-hijacking-2/) for an overview of session hijacking using cookies. This video also includes a short demo.

### Video Notes
#### Browser Cookies and Session IDs

- Cookies
	- Information stored on your computer by the browser
- Used for tracking, personalization, session management
	- Not executable, not generally a security risk
		- Unless someone gets access to them
- Could be considered a privacy risk
	- Lots of personal data in there
- Session IDs are often stored in the cookie
	- Maintains sessions across multiple browser sessions

#### Session Hijacking (Sidejacking)

   💻               $\to$                           📦                         
Victim      Session ID:        Web Server
      3B0027A38FDF37                   ^----Session ID 3B0027A38FDF37---- 💻
							                            Attacker

#### Header Manipulation

- Information gathering
	- Wireshark, Kismet
- Exploits
	- Cross-site scripting
- Modify headers
	- Tamper, Firesheep, Scapy
- Modify Cookies
	- Cookies Manager+ (Firefox add-on)

#### Prevent Session Hijacking

- Encrypt end-to-end
	- They can't capture your session ID if they can't see it
	- Additional load on the web server (HTTPS)
	- Firefox extension: HTTPS everywhere, force-TLS
- Encrypt end-to-somewhere
	- At least avoid capture over a local wireless network
	- Still in-the-clear for part of the jounrey
	- Personal VPON (OpenVPN, VyprVPN, etc.)
- Use Session ID monitors
	- Blacksheep
	- Application-specific

- - -

Related to XSS and session hijacking are Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) attacks. This attack has users unknowingly issue malicious web requests once they are authenticated into a web service. Potential actions could range from transferring money (in a bank website) to changing the contact email address.