## HTTP Attacks Overview

We’re going to talk about some _HTTP attacks_, particularly those that involve _JavaScript and AJAX_.

First, let's cover a couple important things about JavaScript and AJAX. JavaScript is code that a web browser executes. Typically a user visits a webpage that has JavaScript code embedded or as an embedded object. The browser downloads the code and executes it to perform some function on the webpage. JavaScript is powerful and is widely used, but we have to be careful to avoid some of its vulnerabilities.

AJAX is a _set of web development techniques for creating dynamic web pages and web applications_. Using AJAX, _a web client can send data to or retrieve data from a web server in the background without the user explicitly issuing a new request or reloading the page_. Essentially, the JavaScript program running in the browser can create its own HTTP requests based on user interaction (choosing an item in a drop-down menu, clicking a button, etc.). These requests can trigger server-side scripts (e.g., PHP, Python) that result in HTTP responses back to the browser.

One example of AJAX that you've used before is _type-ahead search_. Each time you press a key in the search box, an HTTP request is sent to the server to request possible completions of the work you are typing. The server will execute a _script to find the completions_ and then it _sends back an HTTP response with the list_. The JavaScript in the web browser will then display the list as a drop-down.
