## Mathematical Induction

### Why Mathematical Induction?

Mathematical Induction is a very powerful tool when studying Computer Science or mathematics. It is also a powerful mathematical tool. Its versatility allows us to solve problems that would otherwise be quite difficult to prove.

### Putting it Into Perspective

**Visualizing an Infinite Ladder:**

Imagine an endless ladder representing our problem-solving journey. Each rung symbolizes a step in our process. Using Mathematical Induction, our goal is to climb to its pinnacle. We aim to demonstrate that from any given step, we can progress to the next. If successful, we'll ultimately reach the top.

To generalize this, we can assume that any step, $k$, we will be able to reach step $k+1$. Is this enough to get us to the top? The answer is no, but note that there is one exception where it could prove true: if we can reach step one. Without this foundation, there's no sense in us trying to ascend further.

##### Procedure:

**Given an Infinite Ladder:**
Two conditions that must be met:

1. We can reach the first rung
2. If we can reach a particular rung of the ladder, then we can reach the next rung

**Step-by-Step Approach:**
- Starting from (1), we can reach the first rung
- Applying (2) iteratively, we progress to the subsequent rungs
- This sequence will continue indefinitely

- - -

### Principle of Mathematical Induction

Mathematical Induction asserts that a property $P(n)$ holds true for all positive integers, $n$, so that we can
1. **Basis Step:** Show that $P(1)$ is true.
2. **Inductive Step:** Show that $P(k)\to P(k+1)$ is true for all positive integers $k$.
	- If $P(k)$ holds, then so will $P(k+1)$.

- - -

## Examples

### Example: Proving a Summation Formula

**Question:** Show that $\sum_{i=1}^n i=\frac{n(n+1)}{2}$

**Solution:**
Basis Step: 
- P(1) is true since $\frac{1(1+1)}{2}=1$

Inductive Step:
- Assuming $P(k)$ is true,
	- The inductive hypothesis yields $\sum_{i=1}^k i=\frac{k(k+1)}{2}$ 
- Under this assumption, we can say 
$$1+2+\dots+k+(K=1)=\frac{k(k+1)}{2}+(k+1)$$ $$=\frac{k(k+1)+2(k+1)}{2}$$
$$=\frac{(k+1)(k+2)}{2}$$
- - -

### Proving Inequalities
### Example 1:

Use the mathematical induction to prove that $n<2^n$ for all positive integers $n$.

#### Solution:

Let $P(n)$ be the proposition that $n<2^n$.
- **Basis Step:** $P(1)$ is true since $1<2^1=2.$
- **Inductive Step:** Assume $P(k)$ holds, i.e., $k<2^k$, for an arbitrary positive integer $k$

- We must show $PP(k+1)$ holds. Since by the inductive hypothesis, $k<2^k$, it follows that: $$k+1<2^k+1\leq 2^k+2^K=2\times2^k=2^{k+1}$$
Therefore, $n<2^n$ holds for all positive integers $n$.

### Example 2: 

Use mathematical induction to prove that $2^n<n!$, for every integer $n\geq 4$.

#### Solution:

Let $P(n)$ be the proposition that $2^n<n!$
- **Basis Step:** $P(4)$ is true since $2^4=16<4\neq 24$.
- **Inductive Step:** Assume $P(k)$ holds, i.e., $2^k<k!$ for an arbitrary integer $k\geq 4$. To show that $P(k+1)$ holds:

$$2^{k+1}=2\times 2^k$$
$$<~2\times k!$$
$$<~(k+1)!$$

Therefore, $2^n<n!$ holds every integer $n\geq 2$

> [!note]
> Here, the basis step is $P(4)$ since $P(0),P(1),P(2)$, and $P(3)$ are all false.

