## Interfaces: Polymorphism

"Polymorphism means that you write a certain program and it behaves differently depending on the data that is operates on." - Tom Kurtz

### Creating an Interface

Let's begin by creating an interface:

```go
// reader is an interface that defines the act of reading data
type reader interface {
	read(b []byte) (int, error)
}
```

Interfaces are _valueless_, as they are not concrete data. If we were to do something like

```go
var r reader
```

it's important to understand that `r` is not real; we cannot read from it, write to it, or manipulate it.

Notice the signature of our `read` function... 

```go
read(b []byte) (int, error)
```

Could it have been

```go
read(n int) ([]byte, error)
// b := make([]byte, n) (hypothetical function body)
```

instead? No, this actually has a huge jump in cost - every time this line gets called, an allocation happens on the heap because the size (`n`) isn't known at compile-time. 

How about if we don't ask for the size and hard-code it?

```go
read() ([]byte, error)
// b := make([]byte, 4096) (hypothetical function body)
```

Well, the allocations wouldn't happen at first, but what about when `return b` back up the call stack? To the heap it goes.

### Struct Definition

Let's create a piece of concrete data to work with our interface:

```go
// file defines a file system
type file struct {
	name string
}
```

### Implementation

Now, let's implement `read` from the `reader` interface for a `file` using value semantics:

```go
// read implements the reader interface for a file
func (file) read(b []byte) (int, error) {
	// ...
}
```

Let's add another concrete type called `pipe`

```go
// pipe defines a named pipe network connection
type pipe struct {
	name string
}
```

and implement `read` for it:

```go
// read implements the reader interface for a network connection
func (pipe) read(b []byte) (int, error) {
	// ...
}
```

### Putting It Together

Now, let's interact with these through a new function:

```go
// retrieve reads any device that implements reader, then processes the data
func retrieve(r reader) error {
	data := make([]byte, 100)

	len, err := r.read(data)
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}

	fmt.Println(string(data[:len]))
	return nil
}
```

Notice the signature - we seem to be accepting a value of type `reader`. But we said interfaces don't hold values? Instead it's asking for any piece of concrete data that implements the behavior, which in this case is only the `read` method.

Recall the quote at the top and it now makes sense: depending on which concrete type we `read` from, there is a respective method that will handle it accordingly. This is polymorphism.

### The Final Pieces

Let's show what we explained above in `main`:

```go
func main() {
	// Create our 2 concrete types
	f := file{"data.json"}
	p := pipe{"cfg_service"}

	// Call the retrieve function for each
	retrieve(f)
	retrieve(p)
}
```

Note that value semantics are at play, meaning copies of both `f` and `p` get created.
