## Relationship to CIs

Hypothesis testing is very closely related to confidence intervals. Confidence intervals involve computing bound within which it is "reasonable" for a population parameter to lie.

### Confidence Interval Method

If a confidence interval for a population parameter does not contain the value in the null hypothesis, then we _reject_ the null hypothesis. The confidence interval contains the most likely values of the parameter, so if the value in the null hypothesis is not contained, then is it unlikely.

If the confidence interval contains the value of the population parameter in the null hypothesis, then we _fail to reject_ the null hypothesis.

### Example

**Problem:** A common claim is that garlic lowers cholesterol levels. In a test of the effectiveness of garlic, 26 subjects were treated with doses of raw garlic, and their cholesterol levels were measured before and after the treatment. The changes in their levels of LDL cholesterol (in mg/dL) have a mean of $0.4$, a standard deviation of $21.0$, and follow a normal distribution. Construct a $95\%$ confidence interval estimate of the mean net change in LDL cholesterol after the garlic treatment to test the common claim.

**Solution:**

The null and alternative hypotheses are:

$$H_{0}:\mu=0$$

$$H_{1}:\mu<0$$

The standard deviation given is _NOT_ a population standard deviation, but a standard deviation for the sample of 26 objects. 

Find $t_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}$:
1. $\alpha=1-\mathrm{Confidence~Level}=1-.95=.05$
2. $\frac{\alpha}{2}=\frac{.05}{2}=.025$
3. $\nu=n-1=26-1=25$
4. Using [Table A.4](./Resources/Table_A4.pdf) where $\nu=25$ and $\alpha=.05$, we find the critical value $2.060$

$t_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}=2.060$

$$\overline x - t_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}\left( \frac{s}{\sqrt{ n }} \right)<\mu<\overline x + t_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}\left( \frac{s}{\sqrt{ n }} \right)$$

$$0.4-2.060\left( \frac{21.0}{\sqrt{ 26 }} \right)<\mu<0.4+2.060\left( \frac{21.0}{\sqrt{ 26 }} \right)$$

$$-8.08<\mu<8.88$$

Thus, we are 95% confident that the interval between $-8.08$ and $8.88$ contains the true value of the mean net change in LDL cholesterol after the garlic treatment.

Because the confidence interval limits contain the value of 0, the decision is to _fail to reject_ $H_{0}$.

There is _not_ sufficient evidence to support the common claim that garlic lowers cholesterol levels.