
### Request Examples
Here are two examples of HTTP request messages that are sent by current browsers. Note that the CRLF at the end of each line is removed, but they are present.

**Example 1**
Requesting http://www.cs.odu.edu/~mweigle/ in Chrome
```
GET /~mweigle/ HTTP/1.1 Host: www.cs.odu.edu Connection: keep-alive Accept: text/html,application/xhtml+xml,application/xml;q=0.9,*/*;q=0.8 User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_8_2) AppleWebKit/537.17 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/24.0.1312.56 Safari/537.17 Accept-Encoding: gzip,deflate,sdch Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.8 Accept-Charset: ISO-8859-1,utf-8;q=0.7,*;q=0.3 Cookie: SESSID=TkZCQjBROTI2NjY4; __utma=35744766....
```

**Example 2**
Requesting http://www.cs.odu.edu/~mweigle/ in Safari
```
GET /~mweigle/ HTTP/1.1 Host: www.cs.odu.edu User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_8_2) AppleWebKit/536.26.17 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/6.0.2 Safari/536.26.17 Accept: text/html,application/xhtml+xml,application/xml;q=0.9,*/*;q=0.8 Accept-Language: en-us Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate Cookie: __utma=256360345.1846808915.1...
```

These example requests are similar in format.

The first line is the request line. It indicates the method (GET) used to request the web resource. The resource that is requested is at the path /~mweigle/. The version of HTTP used is HTTP/1.1.

After the request line comes the list of header options. These lines are optional and may appear in any order, but they provide important information to the web server.

The first header option (which is often required by web servers) is the Host: line. This indicates the hostname of the web server that is being contacted.

The User-Agent: option provides information about the client (web browser) that is contacting the server. From this line we can see that the client OS is an Intel Mac OS X 10.8.2. We can also see the web browser type and version (though the Chrome example also includes information on Safari).

All of the header options that start with Accept are part of _content negotiation_. This allows a user agent (client) to specify what types of resources it can accept and display. The user agent tells the server that it understands html, xhtml+xml, prefers English language resources, and the specific character sets that it can display.

Finally, we have the Cookie header, which I've truncated (these are usually long). We'll talk more about cookies later.

HTTP request messages typically do not include anything in the message body. The exception is for request messages that use the POST method.

### Response Examples

HTTP response messages typically include a response header section and a response body section. If the requested object was found, the object is included in the response body.

Here are a couple examples of HTTP response message headers. Note that the response body has been truncated for brevity.

### Example 1:
HTTP response headers returned after a request for 
http://www.cs.odu.edu/~mweigle/files/foo.txt
```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 30 Jan 2013 01:44:23 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.17 (Unix) PHP/5.3.5 ...
Last-Modified: Thu, 19 May 2011 19:23:43 GMT
ETag: "5c-4a3a5f178cdd0"
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Content-Length: 92
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/plain
```
### Example 2:
HTTP response headers returned after a request for
http://www.msnbc.com/notexist.html
```HTTP/1.1 404 Not Found
Cache-Control: private
Content-Length: 52017
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.5
X-AspNet-Version: 2.0.50727
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Wed, 30 Jan 2013 02:00:20 GMT
Connection: close
```

Like with HTTP request messages, HTTP response messages begin with a required line followed by some number of optional lines.

The first line in an HTTP response message is the status line. It indicates the version of HTTP the server is using (HTTP/1.1), the status code (200 in Example 1 and 404 in Example 2), and a human-readable phrase that describes the status code.

Most response messages include fields for the current date (Date:) and a description of the web server (Server:). Some web servers are more forthcoming about the web server version than others. For example, if you look at a response from a Google web server, the server line is simply "Server: gws".

If the requested resource is found, then there are usually headers that indicate the time the resource was last modified (Last-Modified:), the type of content (Content-Type:), and the size of the content in bytes (Content-Length:). There may be other header fields included as well.
