## Sample Size for Proportions

Support we want to collect sample data in order to estimate some population proportion. The question is _how many_ sample items must be obtained so that we are confident in our results?

To do this, we want to control the margin of error value $E$ by choosing an appropriate minimum sample size. If we look at the formula for $E$ and solve for $n$, we get

$$E=Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}\sqrt{\frac{\hat{p}\hat{q}}{n}}$$

<p align="center">Solve for n by algebra</p>

$$n=\frac{(Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}})^2 \hat{p}\hat{q}}{E^2}$$

To use this formula, the researcher decides the confidence level to be used for the study and choose the maximum margin of error the researcher is okay with, i.e. how close does researcher needs to be to the true population proportion.

The values of $\hat{p}$ and $\hat{q}$ can come from a previous study or if no prior estimate of them are known, then one can use the formula:

$$n=\frac{(Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}})^2}{4E^2}$$

In this formula, we are equally weighting the probability of getting of a _Success_, or getting a _Failure_, $\hat{p}=\hat{q}=0.5$.

When computing sample size, we must remember that we can only sample in whole numbers $1,2,3,4,\dots$ and so on. Therefore, if the computed sample size $n$ is not a whole number, round (or bump) its value up to the next larger whole number.

Using this formula will provide the researcher with the minimum sample size needed to guarantee that the sample statistics will be within the specified margin of error with a certain confidence.

### Examples

#### Example 1

**Problem:** The Internet is affecting all of us in many different ways, so there are many reasons for estimating the proportion of adults who use it. Assume that an E-Bay manager wants to determine the current percentage of U.S. adults who now use the Internet. How many adults must be surveyed in order to be $95\%$ confident that the sample percentage is in error by no more than three percentage points?


**Solution:** The key phrase is "How many adults must be surveyed...", which indicates that we need to solve for a minimum sample size. We have no information given for prior results, so we'll use the formula:

$$n=\frac{(Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}})^2}{4E^2}$$

$95\% \mathrm{~Confidence}\to Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}=1.96$ (see previous module if needed)

The margin of error comes from the phrase "...in error by no more than three percentage points?"

$E=3\%=0.03$

$$n=\frac{(Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}})^2}{4E^2}=\frac{1.96^2}{4(0.03)^2}=1067.1111=1068$$

Therefore, in order for the E-Bay manager to be within $3\%$ of the current percentage of U.S. adults who now use the Internet with $95\%$ confidence, the manager must sample at least $1068$ U.S. adults.

> [!note]
>
> - We rounded (or bumped) $1067.1111$ up to $1068$. The number $1067.1111$ is the minimum sample size and the E-Bay manager cannot go below this number, however, we also cannot sample $.1111$ of an adult, which is we why did the rounding up.
> - The E-Bay manager can always sample more than $1068$ adults, they just cannot less than $1068$ adults and be confident they will get the desired results.

#### Example 2

**Problem:** The Internet is affecting all of us in many different ways, so there are many reasons for estimating the proportion of adults who use it. Assume that an E-Bay manager wants to determine the current percentage of U.S. adults who now use the Internet. In 2006, a study found that $73\%$ of adults used the Internet. How many adults must be surveyed to be $95\%$ confident that the sample percentage is in error by no more than three percentage points?

**Solution:** "How many adults must be surveyed..." once again indicates we need to solve for the minimum sample size. Also, the manager is estimating a percentage or proportion which is key language to choosing the correct formula. 

This problem has results from a previous study that can be used to estimate $\hat{p}$, therefore to calculate the minimum sample size, we'll use the formula:

$$n=\frac{(Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}})^2 \hat{p}\hat{q}}{E^2}$$

$95\% \mathrm{~Confidence} \to Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}=1.96$ (see previous module if needed)

The margin of error comes the language "...in error by no more than three percentage points?"

$E=3\%=0.03$

The sample proportion and complement come from the previous study

$\hat{p}=73\%=0.73$

$\hat{q}=1-\hat{p}=1-0.73=0.27$

$$n=\frac{(Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}})^2 0.25}{E^2}=\frac{1.96^2(0.73)(0.27)}{0.03^2}=841.3104=842$$

 Thus, in order for the manager to be within $3\%$ of the current percentage of U.S. adults who now use the Internet with $95\%$, they must sample at least $842$ U.S. adults.

Notice that with the results from a previous study, the manager is able to take a smaller sample size and still be confident in the results he will obtain.

