## Confidence Intervals for $p$ Examples

#### Example 1

**Problem:** A Pew Research Center poll of $1501$ randomly selected U.S. adults showed that $70\%$ of the respondents believe in global warning.

**a)** Find the $95\%$ confidence interval estimate of the population proportion $p$
**b)** Based on the results, can we safely conclude that the majority of adults believe in global warning?

**Solution:**

**a)** 

$n=1501$
$\hat{p}=70\%=0.70$
$\hat{q}=1-\hat{p}=1-0.70=0.30$

$95\% \mathrm{~Confidence}\to Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}=1.96$ (see previous module if needed)

$$\hat{p}-Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}\sqrt{ \frac{\hat{p}\hat{q}}{n} }<p<\hat{p}+Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}\sqrt{ \frac{\hat{p}\hat{q}}{n} }$$

$$0.70-1.96\sqrt{ \frac{0.70(0.30)}{1501} }<p<0.70+1.96\sqrt{ \frac{0.70(0.30)}{1501} }$$

$$0.667<p<0.723$$

Therefore, we are $95\%$ confident that the interval between $67.7\%$ and $72.3\%$ contains the true value of the percentage of U.S. adults who believe in global warming.

**b)** Because the entire confidence interval obtained in **a)** is above $0.5$, it does appear that the proportion of adults who believe in global warming is greater than $50\%$, so we can safely conclude that the majority of adults believe in global warming.

- - -

#### Example 2

**Problem:** A sample of $500$ nursing applications included $60$ from men. Find the $90\%$ confidence interval of the true proportion of men who applied to the nursing program.

**Solution:**

$n=500$
$\hat{p}=\frac{X}{n}=\frac{60}{500}=0.12$
$\hat{q}=1-\hat{p}=1-0.12=0.88$

$90\%\mathrm{~Confidence}\to Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}=1.645$ (see previous module if needed)

$$\hat{p}-Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}\sqrt{ \frac{\hat{p}\hat{q}}{n} }<p<\hat{p}+Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}\sqrt{ \frac{\hat{p}\hat{q}}{n} }$$

$$0.12-1.645\sqrt{ \frac{0.12(0.88)}{500}}<p<0.12+1.645\sqrt{ \frac{0.12(0.88)}{500}}$$

$$0.096<p<0.144$$

Therefore, we can be $90\%$ confident that the interval between $9.6\%$ and $14.4\%$ contains the true percentage of nursing applicants who are men.

> [!note]
> 
> In Example 1, $\hat{p}$ was given in the problem as a percentage value. We only needed to convert the percentage to its decimal equivalent to calculate the confidence interval. In Example 2, we had to calculate $\hat{p}$ using the formula $\frac{X}{n}$
> 
> Generally, we can express confidence intervals in 3 different ways:
> 
> - $\hat{p}-E<p<\hat{p}+E$
> - $\hat{p}\pm E$ 
> - $(\hat{p}-E,~\hat{p}+E)$
> 
> The two values $\hat{p}-E$ and $\hat{p}+E$ are our confidence limits. 
> 
> If we apply this to Example 2:
> $9.6\%<p<14.4\%$
> $12\% \pm 2.4\%$
> $(9.6\%,~14.4\%)$




