- - -

Using our previous notation for public key encryption, let’s suppose that Alice wants Bob to be sure that she sent the message, _i.e._, to authenticate the message. So, Alice uses her private key to _digitally sign_ the message, and sends the following to Bob: $K_{A}^-(m), m$

Why does Alice send the message in plain-text? This allows Bob to apply Alice’s public key to retrieve the message and then compare it against the plain-text message that she sent.

$K_{A}^+ (K_{A}^-(m)) = m$

Now, anyone with Alice’s public key can open the signed message, so it’s essentially being sent in plain-text as well. All that Alice is doing here is proving to Bob (or anyone else who receives the message) that she actually sent the message.

Remember that in public key cryptography, there’s a special relationship between the public key and the private key. Anything encrypted with the public key can only be decrypted by the corresponding private key. Anything encrypted with the private key can only be decrypted by the corresponding public key.

Now, let's combine encryption with digital signatures. Let's say that Alice wants to send a private message to Bob _and_ ensure that Bob knows that it's really from Alice.

Alice would first sign the message, using her private key (can only be decrypted with Alice's public key). Then, she encrypts the signed message with Bob's public key (can only be decrypted with Bob's private key).

So, Alice would send this to Bob: $K_{B}^+ (K_{A}^-(m))$

To read the message, Bob would apply his private key and Alice's public key.

$K_{A}^+ (K_{B}^- (K_{B}^+ (K_{A}^-(m)))) = m$

So, the only way that someone could read the message would be to have both Bob's private key and Alice's public key. Bob is ensured that the only way someone could send the message would be to have Bob's public key and Alice's private key.

How does Bob know that what he has as Alice’s public key is really Alice’s public key? That requires the use of a certificate authority, which will be covered later in this topic.