- - -
## # Internet Shopping with Certificates
Let's look at an example. Alice is shopping from amazon.com. Amazon has already obtained their certificate from Verisign:

> sigVerisign (“amazon.com”, K+amazon.com), K+amazon.com, “amazon.com”

This certificate is sent to Alice. To verify the certificate, Alice uses Verisign’s public key (which has been pre-loaded on her computer and browser) to open the signed part of the certificate. Alice then compares the signed string “amazon.com” with the unsigned string that was sent (“amazon.com”) and compares the signed public key ($K^+_{amazon}.com$) with the unsigned public key that was sent ($K^+_{amazon}.com$). If these match, then Alice knows that this is actually amazon.com’s public key.

Now back to our example of Alice and Bob. If Alice wants to digitally sign her message to Bob and prove to Bob that her public key really belongs to her, she would obtain a certificate from the CA and send that certificate along with her message to Bob. Note that the CA has to be a trusted source. Bob needs to have the CA’s public key ($K_{CA}^+$) and trust that it is valid.

Alice sends the following message to Bob:
$m, K_{A}^-(m), K_{CA}^-(K_{A}^+, ~Alice’s ~ID ~info)$

This includes the plain-text message m, the digitally signed message $K_{A}^-(m)$, and the certificate signed by the CA.

First, Bob uses the CA’s public key to open the certificate. Then, he uses Alice’s public key that was inside the certificate to check that the signed message is the same as the plain-text message.