- - - 
### Denial-of-Service (DoS) Attacks
A **Denial-of-Service (DoS) attack** is one where the attacker tries to prevent legitimate users from accessing a particular service. 

Attackers make resources (server, bandwidth) unavailable to legitimate traffic by overwhelming resource with bogus traffic.

##### Distributed DoS
If done by a set of coordinated attackers (often through a botnet), it's sometimes called a **distributed Dos attack (DDos)**.

- Select target
- Break into hosts around the network
- Send packets toward target from compromised hosts


Web servers are typical targets of DDoS attacks, but even the DNS system has been the subject of DDoS attacks in the past.

- - -
### Packet Sniffing
A packet sniffer can read a copy of every packet sent on a shared network. They are freely available. One popular sniffer used in networking courses for teaching is [Wireshark](http://www.wireshark.org).

Through this attack, your packets are able to be sniffed, modified, and deleted.

- Broadcast media (shared Ethernet, wireless)
- Promiscuous network interface reads/records all packets (including password)

- - -
### Spoofing
Attackers can also impersonate others by spoofing the IP address in a packet. This allows them to send packets that contain a false source address.

- - -
### Zero-Day Vulnerabilities
A Zero-Day Vulnerability is exploited by an attacker before the software vendor becomes aware of the vulnerability and tries to fix the problem.

Many applications have vulnerabilities
- We've just now found them yet

Someone is working hard to find the next big vulnerability
- The good guys share these with the developer

Attackers keep these yet-to-be-discovered holes to themselves
- They want to use these vulnerabilities for personal gain

Zero-day
- The vulnerability has not been detected or published
- Zero-day exploits are increasingly common

[Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE)](http://cve.mitre.org)

**Example**

November 3, 2010
- Internet Explorer 6, 7, and 8 zero-day announced

December 14, 2010
- MS10-090 patch released
	- "Use-after-free vulnerability in Microsoft Internet Explorer 6, 7, and 9 allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code via vectors related to Cascading Style Sheets (CSS)" token sequences and the clip attribute, aka an 'invalid flag reference' issue or 'Uninitialized Memory Corruption Vulnerability,' as exploited in the wild in November 2010."

Internet Explorer 6 released August 27, 2001
- Vulnerability was "unknown" for nine years

- - -
### Buffer Overflow Vulnerability
A buffer overflow is the result of writing more data to memory than was allocated. The extra bytes are written into adjacent memory locations and can cause unintended actions.
One program Professor wrote had a buffer overflow that caused her printer to start printing! With the rise of the Internet, buffer overflows can have more serious consequences and have been the target of attack.

##### Integer Overflow
Integer
- A positive or negative whole number
- No fractions

Usually has a fixed boundary
- A low-to-high-end range

Vulnerable software may allow an integer to go out of bounds
- For example, wrap the integer value from positive to negative

This integer may allocate a memory location for a buffer
- The buffer will now be too small, and a buffer overflow might occur

##### Buffer Overflow
Overwriting a buffer of memory
- Spills over into other memory areas

Developers need to perform bounds checking
- The bad guys spend a lot of time looking for openings

Not a simple exploit
- Takes time to avoid crashing things

A really useful buffer overflow is repeatable
- Which means that all systems are pwned

###### Visual Representation
| Variable Name | A | B |
| ---- | ---- | ---- |
| Value | [null string] | 1979 |
| Hex Value | 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 | 07 BB |

| Variable Name | A | B |
| ---- | ---- | ---- |
| Value | 'e' 'x'  'c' 'e' 's'  's'  'i'  'v' | 25856 |
| Hex Value | 65 78 63 65 73 73 69 76 | 65 00 |
