- - -
A binomial probability distribution allows one to deal with circumstances in which the outcomes belong to **two** relevant categories, such as acceptable/defective, survived/died, or boy/girl. In general, we call the two categories _Success_ and _Failure_.

A **binomial experiment** must satisfy the following requirements:
- The experiment consists of $n$ independent and identical (iid) trials.
- Each trial has 2 possible outcomes called _Success_ and _Failure_.
- The per trial probability, $p$, that a _Success_ occurs must remain constant for each trial.
- The main interest of the experiment is to count the number of _Successes_ in the $n$ trials.

In a binomial experiment, $X$, equal to the number of _Successes_ in the $n$ trials, is called a **binomial random variable.**

The probability distribution of $X$ is called the **binomial distribution**.

### Example 1:
For each experiment below, identify $n$ and $p$.

a) A fair coin is tossed 10 times. Let $X$ be the number of heads that occur in the 10 tosses.
b) A fair die is tossed 5 times. Let $X$ be the number of times a 6 appears on the upface in the 5 tosses.
c) Twenty cards are selected, with replacement, from a standard deck of 52 cards. Let $X$ be the number of aces in the sample of 20 cards.
#### Solution:
a) $n=10,~p=\frac{5}{10}=0.5$
b) $n=5,~p=\frac{1}{6}=0.167$
c) $x=20,~p=\frac{4}{52}=0.077$

Note that, for part c, “with replacement” is important, otherwise the trials would not be independent.

Sampling “without replacement” yields dependent trials because the removal of one object reduces the number of possible objects for another draw. However, the binomial distribution arises when sampling without replacement from a large population. When the population is large, the probability of success remains approximately the same, even when a few objects are removed. A general rule of thumb is that independence can be assumed in a sample size less than 5% of the population size, $n\leq 0.05N$.

### Example 2:
For each experiment below, identify $n$ and $p$.

a) Ten items are selected, without replacement, from a large population, of which 10% of the items are defective. Let $X$ be the number of items in the sample of 10 items.
b) Suppose 70% of the voters favor no car tax. Let $X$ be the number in a sample of 50 that favor having no car tax.
c) Suppose 88% of high school students graduate. Let $X$ be the number of students in a sample of 20 that did not graduate from high school.

#### Solution:
a) $n=10,~p=.10$
b) $n=50,~p=.70$
c) $n=20,~p=1-.88=.12$

Note, in this example part c, the random variable counted the number of students who did **_not_** graduate. Be sure that $X$ and $p$ both refer to the same category being called _Success_.

_Success_ does not have to be a positive outcome. A binomial random variable could count the number of students who do **not** graduate high school or the number of defectives in a shipment of items.






