- - -
### Matrices
**Why Matrices?**
- Matrices are used to express relationships between elements in sets
- Matrices are useful discrete structures that can be used in many ways. For example, they are use to:
	- Express which vertices of a graph are connected by edges (M10)
- We can use matrices to build models of:
	- Transportation systems
	- Communication networks

We are going to cover basic aspects of matrices.

- - -
### Matrix
**Definition:** A *matrix* is a rectangular array of numbers. A matrix with $m$ rows and $n$ columns is called an $m \times n$ matrix.
$$\begin{matrix}
1 & 1 \\
0&2 \\
1&3 \\
\end{matrix}$$
- A matrix with the same number of rows as columns is called a **square**. For instance,
$$\begin{matrix}
5 & 3 & 2 \\
11&9 & 5 \\
8&7& 6\\
\end{matrix}$$
would classify as this.

- Two matrices are **equal** if:
	- They have the same number of rows & columns
	- The corresponding entries in every position are equal

- - -
### Notation
- Let $m$ and $n$ be positive integers and let
$$A=~\begin{bmatrix}
a_{11}&a_{12}&\dots & a_{1n}& \\
a_{11}&a_{12}&\dots & a_{1n}& \\
.&.&&. \\
.&.&&. \\
a_{m1}&a_{m2}&\dots&a_{mn}
\end{bmatrix}$$
- The $i^{th}$ row of $A$ is the $1 \times n$ matrix $[a_{i1},a_{i2},\dots,a_{in}]$
- The $j^{th}$ column of $A$ is the $m\times 1$ matrix: $$\begin{bmatrix}
a_{1j}\\
a_{2j} \\
. \\
. \\
a_{mj}
\end{bmatrix}$$
---
### Matrix Arithmetic 

#### Addition
**Example:**
$$\begin{bmatrix}
1 & 0 & -1 \\
2&2 & -3 \\
3&4& 0\\
\end{bmatrix} + \begin{bmatrix}
3 & 4 & -1 \\
1&-3 & 0 \\
-1&1& 2\\
\end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix}
3 & 4 & -2 \\
3&-1 & -3 \\
2&5& 2\\
\end{bmatrix} $$

> [!Note]
> Matrices with different sizes cannot be added.

#### Multiplication
**Definition:** Let $A$ be an $m \times k$ matrix and $B$ be a $k \times n$ matrix. The *product* of $A$ and $B$ is denoted by $AB$ and is known as the $m \times n$ matrix.

For an element in the result matrix $x_{ij}=a_{i{1}}b_{1j}+a_{i2}b_{2j}+\dots+a_{kj}b_{2j}$

**Example**
$$\begin{bmatrix}
1&0&4 \\
2&1&1 \\
3&1&0 \\
0&2&2
\end{bmatrix}\begin{bmatrix}
2&4 \\
1&1 \\
3&0 \\
\end{bmatrix}=\begin{bmatrix}
14&4 \\
8&9 \\
7& 13 \\
8&2
\end{bmatrix}$$
It may not be clear to see what's going on at first. The process is
$$\begin{bmatrix}
(row~1[1]~\times~column~1[1])~+~(row~1[2]~\times~column~1[2])~+~(row~1[3]~\times~column~1[3]) \\
(1\times2) ~+~(0\times1)+(4~\times~3)~ =~14
\end{bmatrix}$$
and so on.


> [!Note]
> The product of two matrices in undefined when the number of columns in the first matrix is not the same as the number of rows in the second.

- - -
### Matrix Multiplication is NOT Commutative

#### Example: 
Let
$$A=\begin{bmatrix}
1&1 \\
2&1
\end{bmatrix}~~~~~~~~~~~~~B=\begin{bmatrix}
2&1 \\
1&1
\end{bmatrix}$$
Does $AB=BA$?

#### Solution:
$$AB=\begin{bmatrix}
2&2 \\
5&3
\end{bmatrix}~~~~~~~~~~~~~BA=\begin{bmatrix}
4&3 \\
3&2
\end{bmatrix}$$
No, $AB\neq BA$






