## Test Statistic: Sigma Known

A _test statistic_ is a value used in the making a decision about whether or not to reject the null hypothesis. Using data from a sample, we can calculate a statistic, which is an estimate for the population parameter about which we are conducting the test. The test statistic is found by converting this sample statistic to a score, under the assumption the null hypothesis is true.

Recall that the sample mean, $\overline x$, is the best point of estimate for the population mean, $\mu$. The calculation of the test statistic depends on whether the population standard deviation, $\sigma$, is known or unknown.

- - -

If the population standard deviation, $\sigma$, is known, then the test statistic is calculated as:

$$Z=\frac{\overline x-\mu_{0}}{\frac{\sigma}{\sqrt{ n }}}$$

The test statistic has a Standard Normal Distribution, therefore critical values and $p$-values are calculated using [Table A.3](ODU/Semesters/Spring%202024/STAT330%20Intro%20to%20Probability%20&%20Statistics/(M13)%20Hypothesis%20Testing%20for%20Means/(M13.4)%20Test%20for%20a%20Single%20Mean%20-%20Sigma%20Known/Resources/Table_A3.pdf). The value $\mu_{0}$ is the value of $\mu$ from the null hypothesis.

### Example

**Problem:** The Medical Rehabilitation Education Foundation reports that the average cost of rehabilitation for stroke victims is $24,672. To see if the average cost of rehabilitation is different at a particular hospital, a researcher selects a random sample of 35 stroke victims at the hospital and finds that the average cost of their rehabilitation is $25,226. The standard deviation of the population is $3251. Calculate the test statistic.

**Solution:**

Remember,
$\overline x$ is calculated or identified from the sample data, 
$\mu$ is the value in the null hypothesis, 
$\sigma$ is the population standard deviation, and 
$n$ is the sample size

For this example, we are testing the hypothesis:

$$H_{0}:\mu=24,672$$
$$H_{1}:\mu \neq 24,672$$

Sample data gives us
$n=35$
$\overline x = 25,226$

The population standard deviation is gives to us as
$\sigma=3251$

So, we calculate the test statistic as:

$$Z=\frac{\overline x - \mu_{0}}{\frac{\sigma}{\sqrt{ n }}}$$

$$=\frac{25226-24672}{\frac{3251}{\sqrt{ 35 }}}=1.01$$

Therefore, our test statistic is $Z=1.01$.








1.68


