## Z Test Single Mean: $p$-value Method

### Example 1

**Problem:** A researcher claims that the average wind speed in a certain city is 8 miles per hour. A sample of 32 days has an average wind speed 8.2 miles per hour. The standard deviation of the population is .6 mile per hour. At $\alpha=.05$, is there enough evidence to reject the claim? Use the $p$-value method.

**Solution:**

1. State the Null and Alternative Hypotheses:

$$H_{0}:\mu=8$$

$$H_{1}:\mu \neq 8$$

2. Choose and Calculate the Appropriate Test Statistic:

Since the population standard deviation is known, this is a $Z$ test.

$$Z=\frac{\overline x - \mu_{0}}{\frac{\sigma}{\sqrt{ n }}}$$

$$Z=\frac{8.2-8}{\frac{.6}{\sqrt{ 32 }}}=1.89$$

3. Compute the $p$-value:

We will use the Standard Normal Distribution to calculate $p$-value because the population standard deviation is known.

This is a two-tailed test since the alternative is not equal to. Since our test is a two-tailed test and our test statistic is positive, the $p$-value is equal to twice the area to the right of the test statistic using the Standard Normal Distribution.

Looking at [Table A.3](./Resources/Table_A3.pdf), we find the area to the left of $1.89$ to be $.9706$, which means the area in the right is $1-.9706=.0294$. Therefore, our $p$-value is twice this:

$$p=2\times.0204=.0588$$

4. Make a Statistical Decision:

Since the $p$-value of $.0588$ is greater than the significance level of $.05$, we _fail to reject_ $H_{0}$.

5. State Conclusions:

There is not sufficient evidence to warrant rejection of the claim that the average wind speed is 8 miles per hour.

