## $p$-value Method: Sigma Known

### Steps to Conduct a $p$-value Method Hypothesis Test

1. State the null and alternative hypothesis
2. Choose and calculate an appropriate test statistic
3. Calculate a test statistic
4. Compute the $p$-value based on the value of test statistic and appropriate sampling distribution
5. Make a statistical decision by comparing the $p$-value to the significance level of the test
6. State conclusion

### Example

**Problem:** A researcher wishes to test the claim that the average cost of tuition and fees at a four-year public college is greater than \$5700. She selects a random sample of 36 four-year public colleges and finds the mean to be $5950. The population standard deviation is \$659. Is there evidence to support the claim at a $.05$ significance level? Use the $p$-value method.

**Solution:**

1. State the Null and Alternative Hypotheses:

$$H_{0}:\mu=5700$$

$$H_{1}:\mu>5700$$

2. Choose and Calculate the Appropriate Test Statistic:

Since the population standard deviation is known, this is a $Z$ test

$$Z=\frac{\overline x-\mu_{0}}{\frac{\sigma}{\sqrt{ n }}}$$

$$Z=\frac{5950-5700}{\frac{659}{\sqrt{ 36 }}}=2.28$$

3. Compute the $p$-value:

We are going to use the Standard Normal Distribution to calculate the $p$-value because the population standard deviation is known.

This is a right-tailed test since the alternative is greater than. Since our test is a right-tailed test, the $p$-value is the area to the right of the test statistic for the Standard Normal Distribution.

Using [Table A.3](./Resources/Table_A3.pdf), we find the area to the left of $2.28$ to be $.9887$, which allows us to calculate the area in the right as $1-.9887=.0113$. Therefore, our $p$-value is $.0113$.

4. Make a Statistical Decision:

Since the $p$-value of $.0113$ is less than the significance level of $.05$, we _reject_ $H_{0}$.

5. State Conclusions:

The sample data supports the claim that the tuition and fees at four-year public colleges are greater than \$5700.

> [!note]
> 
> If $\alpha=.01$, then the decision would have been to _NOT_ reject $H_{0}$. The level of significance is important to making the decision and should be determined by how much change of making a Type I error is acceptable to the researcher.

