## Key Distribution Overview

In the previous topic, we saw authentication could be achieved by using symmetric encryption. One of the problems with this is the fact that the two communicating parties need to agree upon the shared key. If there's no way to physically communicate with the other party, how do agree upon and distribute a shared key?

Another issue is what happens if an attacker happens to get access to the shared key? For this reason, many protocols that use shared keys also change the keys frequently. This limits the damage an attacker can do if the key is compromised.

Here are four potential ways in which key distribution could be accomplished:

1. A key could be selected by Alice and physically delivered to Bob
2. A trusted third party could select the key and physically deliver it to Alice and Bob
3. If Alice and Bob have previously and recently used a key, one party could transmit the new key to the other, using the old key to encrypt the new key
4. If Alice and Bob each have an encrypted connection to a trusted third party, the third party could deliver a key on the encrypted links to Alice and Bob

There are problems with the first _3_ options, so let's focus on option 3. In this option, there are two kinds of keys used:

- **Session Key** - Shared between Alice and Bob, only used for a single communication session
- **Permanent Key** - Key used in distributing the session key

In order to make this work, a trusted third party, called a **Key Distribution Center (KDC)** needs to be present. The KDC provides a one-time session key to two communicating parties so that they can begin their authentication process.

The general steps are as follows:

- Alice wants to communicate with Bob, so she transmits a connection-request packet to the KDC. This communication is encrypted using a key shared only between Alice and the KDC.
- The KDC generates a unique one-time session key. This is encrypted with the key it shares with Alice and is delivered to Alice. The KDC also shared a key with Bob and uses that to deliver the session key to Bob.
- Alice and Bob communicate using the session key delivered by the KDC.