- - -
### Definitions

**Proof**
A **proof** is a valid argument that establishes the truth of a statement.

**Informal Proof**
In math, CS, and other disciplines, we use **informal proofs** - which are generally shorter, where:
- More than one rule of inference are often used in a step
- Some steps may be skipped
- The rules of inference used are not explicitly stated

**Theorem**
A **theorem** is a statement that can be shown to be true using:
- Definitions
- Other theorems
- Axioms (statements which are given as true)
- Rules of inference

**Lemma**
A **lemma** is a "helping theorem" or a result which is needed to prove a theorem.

**Corollary**
A **corollary** is a result which follows directly from a theorem.

**Propositions**
Less important theorems are sometimes called **propositions**.

**Conjecture**
A **conjecture** is a statement that is proposed to be true (it looks true, but may not be). Once a proof of a conjecture is found, it becomes a theorem (it can turn out be be false).

- - -
### Types of Proofs

1. **Direct Proofs**

2. **Indirect Proofs**
	- Proof by Contraposition
	- Proof by Contradiction

3. **Other Types**
	- Trivial proof
	- Vacuous proof

- - -
### Direct Proof
**Proving Conditional Statement: $p \to q$**

**Direct Proof**
In this type of proof, we start by assuming $p$ is **true**. Next, we try to prove $q$ is **true**.

**Example:**
Use direct proof to prove:
	"If $n$ is an odd integer, then $n^2$ is also odd."

**Solution**
	> Assume that $n$ is odd.
	> Therefore, we can write it like $n= 2k + 1$ for an integer $k$
	> Squaring both sides, we get:
		= $n^2 = (2k+1)^2$
	    $=4k^2+4k+1$
	    $= 2(2k^2 + 2k) +1$
	    = $r = (2k^2+2k)$
	    $= 2r +1$  *where $r$ is an integer*
	> Therefore, $n^2$ is an odd integer
	> Thus, we have proved that if $n$ is an odd integer, then $n^2$ is an odd integer
	    
- - -
### Indirect Proof
**Proving Conditional Statement: $p \to q$**

#### 1. Proof by Contraposition:
- We use the proof by contraposition when the direct proof is not obvious.
- Start by assuming $\lnot q$ is **true** and show $\lnot p$ is **true** (Remember: $p \to q \equiv \lnot q \to \lnot p$)

**Example** 
Prove that if $3n+2$ is **odd**, then $n$ is **odd**. Note that $n$ is an integer.

**Solution**:
	> Assume $n$ is even       *(We assumed $\lnot q$ is **true**)*
	> So, we can rewrite $n=2k$ for some integer $k$
	> Thus:
		= $3n+2$
		= $3(2k)+2$
		$=6k+2$
		$= 2(3k+1)$
		= $j = 3k+1$
		$= 2j$    *where $j$ is an integer*
	> Therefore, $3n + 2$ is **even**  (*We proved $\lnot$ p is **true***)
	
Since we have shown $\lnot q \to \lnot p$, then $p \to q$ must hold as well.

> **Note:** If we would've started with direct proof instead, we would've end up getting stuck:
    Assume $3n+2$ is **odd**
	$3n+2 = 2k+1$
	$n=\frac{2k-1}{3}$
	Here, we've reached a **dead end**. We cannot proceed any further to prove $n$ is odd.

#### 2. Proof by Contradiction:

Two Cases:
1. In **case-1**, we want to prove $p$ is **true**
2. In **case-2**, we cant to prove $p \to q$ is **true**

**Case-1**:
To prove $p$ is **true**, we start with the assumption $\lnot p$ is **true**, and try to derive a **contradiction**

What is the **contradiction?** (something **false**, like $p \land \lnot p$ or $r \land \lnot r$)

If we do that, then:
- We have proven that $\lnot \to False$ is **true**    (Remember: $p \to q \equiv \lnot p \lor q$)
- As a result:
		$\lnot p \to False \equiv p \lor False \equiv p$

**Example**:
Use a proof by contradiction to prove that $\sqrt{ 2 }$ is **irrational**

**Solution**
1. Start by assuming $\lnot p$ is **true**, which means we supposed $\sqrt{ 2 }$ is **rational**.
2. Then, we can say there exists two integers $a$ and $b$ such that $\sqrt{ 2 } = \frac{a}{b}$, where:
		$b \neq 0$ and $a$ and $b$ have no common factors
3. Then, squaring $\sqrt{ 2 } = \frac{a}{b}$ will lead to $2 = \frac{a^2}{b^2}$ then $2b^2 = a^2$
4. Therefore, $a^2$ is **even**. If $a^2$ is even, then $a$ must be **even**
5. Since $a$ is **even**, we can write $a=2c$ for some integer $c$
6. This leads to $2b^2=4c^2$ then $b^2=2c^2$
7. Therefore, $b^2$ is **even**. Once again, this means $b$ must be **even** as well
8. Now, we have proved that both $a$ and $b$ are even, which means there exists some common factors between $a$ and $b$
9. This **contradicts** with our assumption that $a$ and $b$ have no common factors
10. Therefore, we have proven by **contradiction** that our initial assumption must be false and $\sqrt{ 2 }$ is subsequently **irrational**

**Case-2**
To prove $p \to q$, we start with $p \land \lnot q$ and try to reach a **contradiction**

*Why will this work?* Remember: $((p \land \lnot q) \to False) \equiv \lnot(p \land \lnot q) \lor False \equiv (\lnot p \lor q) \equiv p \to q$

**Example**
Prove that if you pick 22 days from the calendar, at least 4 must fall on the same day of the week (at least a day, $x$, must be repeated 4 times. (i.e., 4 Mondays)).

**Solution**
We start with $p \land \lnot q$ and try to reach a **contradiction**

1. $p$ means we have picked 22 days and is a valid assumption
2. $\lnot q$ means it is not the case that at least 4 days fall on the same day of the week.
3. So, let's rephrase $\lnot q$ into clearer English like
	- $\lnot q$ = no more than 3 days fall on the same week

4. Because there are 7 days of the week, we could only have picked 21 days to **avoid** the repetition of any day
5. The above assumption **contradicts** with the original assumption that we have picked 22 days
6. Therefore, we have proven by contradiction. 

- - -
### Other Types of Proof

#### Trivial Proof
If we know $q$ is **true**, then $p \to q$ is **true** also.

**Example**: "It it is raining, then $1=1$" 
- *We know $1=1$ is true, so it must be raining*

#### Vacuous Proof
If we know $p$ is **false**, then $p \to q$ is **true** no matter what

**Example:** "If I am both rich and poor, then $2+2=5$" 
- *Both are false, but the entire statement is **true***

- - -
### Problems in Proofs

**What is wrong with the following?**

Prove that $1 = 2$

| Step | Reason |
| ---- | ---- |
| 1. $a=b$ | Premise |
| 2. $a^2=a*b$ | Multiply both sides of 1 by $a$ |
| 3. $a^2-b^2=a*b-b^2$ | Subtract $b^2$ from both sides of 2 |
| 4. $(a-b)(a+b)=b(a-b)$ | Algebra on 3 |
| 5. $a+b=b$ | Divide both sides by $a-b$ |
| 6. $2b=b$ | Replace $a$ by $b$ in 5 because $a=b$ |
| 7. $~\therefore 2=1$  | Divide both sides in 6 by $b$ |

**Solution**: The error lies in Step 5. $a-b=0$ by the premise and division by 0 is undefined.
