## Optimization


### Greedy Algorithms

**Optimization problems** minimize or maximize some parameter over all possible inputs

Optimization problems are good for:
- Finding a route between two cities with the smallest total mileage
- Determine how to encode messages using the fewest possible bits
- Finding the fiber links between network nodes using the least amount of fiber

Optimization problems can often be solved using a **greedy algorithm**, which makes the "best" choice at each step.

Making the "best choice" at each stop does not necessarily produce an optimal solution to the overall problem, but in many instances, it does.

- - -

### Example: Making Change

Design a greedy algorithm for making change (USD) of $n$ cents with the following coins: quarters (25 cents), dimes (10 cents), nickels (5 cents), and pennies (1 cent), using the least total number of coins.

**Idea:** At each step choose the coin with the largest possible value that does not exceed 
the amount of change left.

1. If $n=67$ cents, first choose 1 **quarter**, leaving $67-25=42$ cents. Then, choose another **quarter**, leaving $42-25=17$ cents
2. Choose 1 **dime**, leaving $17-10=7$ cents
3. Choose 1 **nickel**, leaving $7-5=2$ cents
4. Choose 1 **penny**, leaving $2-1=1$ cent. Then, choose another penny, leaving $1-1=0$ cents

- - -

### Optimality of the Greedy Algorithm


**Example:** 
If we allow only quarters (25 cents), dimes (10 cents), and pennies (1 cent), the algorithm no longer produces the minimum number of coins.

Consider we have 31 cents and use a greedy algorithm:
1. 1 Quarter leaves $31-25=6$ cents
2. 6 Pennies leaves $6-6=0$ cents

The algorithm used $1+6=7$ coins to reach 0 cents 

Remember, with a greedy algorithm, we choose the largest possible value that does not exceed $n$. This means we likely won't get the optimal solution.

The optimal number of coins used should 4: 3 dimes and 1 penny

So, the greedy algorithm doesn't guarantee an optimal solution, but it still works in many cases. 

> [!Note]
> Optimality depends on the denominations available
