## $F$ Critical Regions & Values

In the case of testing a claim concerning the equality of two population variances, the sampling distribution is a F Distribution with $\nu_{1}=n_{1}-1$ and $\nu_{2}=n_{2}-1$ degrees of freedom. We will use [Table A.6](./Resources/Table_A6.pdf) to find critical values for testing a claim concerning the equality of two population variances.

Once again,

- If alternative is $>$, this is a right-tailed test where the critical region is an area to the right
	- For the one-sided test, the critical value will cut off an area equal to the significance level. For a right-tailed test, we will cut off an area in the right tail of the curve.
- If alternative is $<$, this is a left-tailed test where the critical region is an area to the right.
	- For the one-sided test, the critical value will cut off an area equal to the significance level. For a left-tailed test, we will cut off an area in the left tail of the curve.
	- In this case, we need to apply the _reciprocal property_ of the $F$ distribution to find the critical value, $f_{1-\alpha}(\nu_{1},\nu_{2})=\frac{1}{f_{\alpha(\nu_{2},\nu_{1})}}$
- If alternative is $\neq$, this is a two-tailed test where the critical region is divided into two pieces, one in each tail. 
	- Each piece will have an area that is half of the significance level

[Table A.6](./Resources/Table_A6.pdf) gives us critical value of the $F$ distribution for $\alpha=$ the area to the right of the critical value.
### Examples

#### Example 1 $(>)$

**Problem:** Find the critical value for a right-tailed test with $\alpha=0.05, n_{1}=8, n_{2}=7$, and the $F$ Distribution as the sampling distribution for the ratio of sample variances.

**Solution:**

$\nu_{1}=n_{1}-1=8-1=7$

$\nu_{2}=n_{2}-1=7-1=6$

Since this is a right-tiled test, $\alpha=0.05$ is the the area in the our right tail. At $\alpha=0.05,\nu_{1}=6,$ and $\nu_{2}=7$ in [Table A.6](./Resources/Table_A6.pdf) we find the critical value $f=4.21$.

#### Example 2 $(<)$

**Problem:** Find the critical value for a left-tailed test with $\alpha=0.05, n_{1}=8, n_{2}=7,$ and the $F$ Distribution as the sampling distribution for the ratio of sample variances.

**Solution:** 

$\nu_{1}=n_{1}-1=8-1=7$

$\nu_{2}=n_{2}-1=7-1=6$

Since this is a right-tiled test, $\alpha=0.05$ is the the area in the our right tail. At $\alpha=0.05,\nu_{1}=6,$ and $\nu_{2}=7$ in [Table A.6](./Resources/Table_A6.pdf) we find the critical value $f=\frac{1}{3.87}=0.258$.

#### Example 3 $(\neq)$

**Problem:** Find the critical value for a two-tailed test with $\alpha=0.10, n_{1}=8, n_{2}=7,$ and the $F$ Distribution as the sampling distribution for the ratio of sample variances.

**Solution:**

$\nu_{1}=n_{1}-1=8-1=7$

$\nu_{2}=n_{2}-1=7-1=6$

- Since we want a critical value for a two-tailed test, $\alpha=\frac{0.10}{2}=0.05$ is the area in each of the tails.
- In [Table A.6](./Resources/Table_A6.pdf), we look up the right-hand critical value using $\alpha=0.05,\nu_{1}=7,$ and $\nu_{2}=6$.
	- Here, we find the critical value $f=4.21$
- In [Table A.6](./Resources/Table_A6.pdf), we look up the left-hand critical value using $\alpha=0.05,\nu_{1}=6,$ and $\nu_{2}=7$.
	- Here, we find the critical value $f=\frac{1}{3.87}=0.258$

>[!Note]
>
> [Table A.6](./Resources/Table_A6.pdf) is limiting for critical values. We can only identify them for $\nu_{1}$ and $\nu_{2}$ pairs that are on the table. 
> 
> Critical values for one-tailed tests can only be identified for $\alpha=0.01$ and $\alpha=0.05$. 
> 
> Critical values for two-tailed tests can only be identified for $\alpha=0.02$ and $\alpha=0.10$.
