## $p$-value Method Exampled

### Steps to Conduct a $p$-value Method Hypothesis Test

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses.
2. Choose and calculate an appropriate test statistic.
3. Compute the $p$-value based on the value of the test statistic and appropriate sampling distribution.
4. Make a statistical decision by comparing the $p$-value to the significance level.
5. State conclusions

### Example

**Problem:** A study is conducted to compare the lengths of time required by men and women to assemble a certain product. Past experience indicates that the distribution of times for both men and women is approximately normal but the variance of the times for women is less than that for men. A random sample of times for 11 men and 14 women had a sample standard deviation of 6.1 for men and a sample standard deviation of 5.3 for women. Test the claim that the variance for men is greater than the variance for women using a $0.05$ level of significance and the $p$-value Method.

**Solution:**

1. **State the null and alternative hypotheses:**

$$H_{0}:\sigma_{1}^2=\sigma_{2}^2$$
$$H_{1}:\sigma_{1}^2>\sigma_{2}^2$$

2. **Choose and calculate the appropriate test statistic:**

$s_{1}^2=6.1^2=37.21$

$s_{2}^2=5.3^2=28.09$

Therefore,

$$f=\frac{s_{1}^2}{s_{2}^2}=\frac{37.21}{28.09}=1.325$$

3. **Compute the $p$-value:**

The alternative is _greater than_, so the $p$-value is equal to the are to the _right_ of the test statistic.

$\nu_{1}=n_{1}-1=11-1=10$

$\nu_{2}=n_{2}-1=14-1=13$

- First, look inside [Table A.6](./Resources/Table_A6.pdf) where $\nu_{1}=10$ and $\nu_{2}=14$ within the $f_{0.05}$ section.
	- Here, we find the critical value $2.67$ with an area to the right of $\alpha=0.05$
- Then, look inside [Table A.6](./Resources/Table_A6.pdf) where $\nu_{1}=10$ and $\nu_{2}=14$ within the $f_{0.01}$ section.
	- Here, we find the critical value $4.10$ with an area to the right of $\alpha=0.01$

Because the test statistic, $f=1.325$, is _greater than_ 2.67, the area to the right of the test statistic is _greater than_ $0.05$.

Therefore,

$$p>0.05$$

4. **Make a statistical decision:**

The decision is to _fail to reject_ $H_{0}$ since the $p$-value is _greater than_ our level of significance, $\alpha=0.05$.

5. **State Conclusions:**

There is _not_ sufficient evidence that at a 5% level of significance to support the claim that the variance for men is greater than the variance for women.

- - -

Using [Table A.6](./Resources/Table_A6.pdf), we are not able to find the exact $p$-value for the test statistic, $f=1.325$, however we were able to find a range of values for the $p$-value that allowed us to make the decision. This is not an efficient way to approach the $p$-value method and other technology is preferred when available. Additionally, finding a range of values for a $p$-value may not allow the researcher to make the decision for some values of $\alpha$.

To demonstrate finding exact $p$-values for an $F$ Distribution, I'll use my TI84 Plus CE. The example above requires the following steps:

1. Press `2nd`
2. Press `vars`
3. Scroll down and select `Fcdf(`
4. Input
	- lower limit ($f$): $1.325$
	- upper limit: $1E99$ (large number)
	- dfNumer: $10$
	- dfDenom: $13$
5. Press `Paste`
6. Press `Enter`

The calculator gives us $p=0.45$.



