## F $p$-values

We have defined a $p$-value as the probability of getting a value of the test statistic that is "_at least as extreme_" as the one representing the sample data, under the assumption that the null hypothesis is true. The null hypothesis is rejected if the $p$-value is very small, specifically if the $p$-value is less than or equal to $\alpha$ the decision is to reject $H_{0}$.

For most problems, we will _not_ be able to use [Table A.6](./Resources/Table_A6.pdf) to find an exact $p$-value, but instead a range of values for the $p$-value. This is similar to how we found a range of values for a $p$-value for a $t$ Distribution or a Chi-Squared Distribution.

Recall the way we find $p$-values depends on the alternative hypothesis:

- If the alternative is _greater than_, $p$-value = area to the _right_ of the test statistic.
- If the alternative is _less than_, $p$-value = area to the _left_ of the test statistic.
- If the alternative is _not equal to_, $p$-value = _two times_ the area beyond the test statistic

### Example

**Problem:** Find the corresponding $p$-value given $H_{1}:\sigma_{1}^2>\sigma_{2}^2,n_{1}=11,n_{2}=14,$ and the test statistic is $f=1.325$

**Solution:**

The alternative is _greater than_, so the $p$-value will be equal to the area to the _right_ of the test statistic.

$\nu_{1}=n_{1}-1=11-1=10$

$\nu_{2}=n_{2}-1=14-1=13$

- First, look inside [Table A.6](./Resources/Table_A6.pdf) where $\nu_{1}=10$ and $\nu_{2}=13$ within the $f_{0.05}$ section.
	- Here, we find the critical value $2.67$ with an area to the right of $\alpha=0.05$
- Then, look inside [Table A.6](./Resources/Table_A6.pdf) where $\nu_{1}=10$ and $\nu_{2}=13$ within the $f_{0.01}$ section.
	- Here, we find the critical value $4.10$ with an area to the right of $\alpha=0.01$

Because the test statistic, $f=1.325$, is _greater than_ 2.67, the area to the right of the test statistic is _greater than_ $0.05$.

Therefore,

$$p>0.05$$