## Arrays

### Array Declaration

#### Zero Value Declaration

Arrays can be declared with their zero values:

```go
var fruits [5]string
```

Elements can then be inserted:

```go
fruits[0] = "Apple"
fruits[1] = "Orange"
fruits[2] = "Strawberry"
fruits[3] = "Banana"
fruits[4] = "Grape"
```

#### Initialized Value Declaration

Arrays can also be declared with initialized values:

```go
fruits := [5]string{"Apple", "Orange", "Strawberry", "Banana", "Grape"}
```

> [!Note] 
> 
> We'll continue to either use one or the other for their intended purpose: if we have values to store immediately, we'll use an initialized declaration, otherwise, we'll use the zero value declaration.

### Array Iteration

#### Index Only Iteration (Pointer Semantic)

To iterate over an array using the index only:

```go
for i := range fruits {
	fmt.Println(fruits[i])
}
```

Here, we borrow our idea of _pointer semantics_ as we work directly with the array, modifying it in place.

#### Index and Value Iteration (Pointer + Value Semantic)

Using both the index and value in the iteration:

```go
for i, fruit := range fruits {
	fmt.Printf("%d - %v", i, fruit[i])
}
```

Here, we make use of both _pointer semantics_  and _value semantics_ since we use `fruit`,  a copy of each element, as we iterate over the array.

### Pointer vs. Value Semantic: Updating an Array

Let's attempt to update a value in our `fruits` array from both a value semantic and pointer semantic standpoint.

#### In-Place Update (Pointer Semantic)

```go
fruits := [5]string{"Apple", "Orange", "Strawberry", "Banana", "Grape"}

fmt.Printf("Before: [%s]\n", fruits[1])

for i := range fruits {
	fruits[1] = "Cherry"

	if i == 1 {
		fmt.Printf("After: [%s]\n", fruits[1])
	}
}
```

This approach modifies the array directly.

Can we do the same with value semantics?

#### Copied Update (Value Semantic)

```go
fruits := [5]string{"Apple", "Orange", "Strawberry", "Banana", "Grape"}

fmt.Printf("Before: [%s]\n", fruits[1])

for i, fruit := range fruits {
	fruits[1] = "Cherry"

	if i == 1 {
		fmt.Printf("After: fruit[%s]\n", fruit)
	}
}
```

No, we actually can't. In this case, we're operating on a _copy_ of the underlying `fruits` array. Hence, the value of `fruit` (value at `fruits[1]`) remains `"Orange"`.

- - -

### Maintaining Semantic Consistency

A solid general guideline for now is to use _value semantics_ when working with _built-in types_; everyone gets their own copy, and we avoid side-effects.

However, one exception is representing a possible null string; in this case, _pointer semantics_ would need to be used. This might look like:

```go
type user struct {
	// ...
	email *string
}
```

This allows the `email` field to be `nil`, representing the absence of a value, which is not possible with a regular string type in Go. Using a pointer allows us to distinguish between an empty email (`""`) and a missing email (`nil`).