## Python Style & PEP 8

### Overview

This document is based on [PEP 8 – Style Guide for Python Code](https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/).

### Introduction

From the last paragraph:

> [!Quote]
> 
> Many projects have their own coding style guidelines. In the event of any conflicts, such project-specific guides take precedence for that project.

We will be following the PEP 8 guidelines closely. Certain exceptions are mathematical notations, e.g., when naming matrices and vectors for Least Squares Approximation.

| Math Notation | Python Variable |
| :------------ | :-------------- |
| XX            | `math_X`        |
| XTXT          | `math_XT`       |
| YY            | `math_Y`        |
| XTXXTX        | `math_XTX`      |
| XTYXTY        | `math_XTY`      |

A nice convention is _prepending the discipline to the variable name if the notation comes from a discipline_. For example, the Newton’s Gravitational Constant “GG” would become `physics_G`.

### Indentation & Spacing

- The standard convention is **4** spaces for each level of indentation (using spaces, not tabs).
- It's ideal to limit maximum line length to ~79 (or just 80) characters

### Blank Lines

The standard convention is

- adding two blank lines after every function
- adding only one line after each method (i.e., function within a class)

Python does recommend that blank lines be used to separate logical sections within a function, e.g.,

```python
def main():
    """
    Compute the area of a room and the cost of
    flooring for the room
    """

    # Construct the house within the build function
    house = build_house()

    print(house)

    # Upgrade the flooring in a second duplicate house
    duplicate_house = upgrade_flooring(house)

    print(f"house == duplicate_house -> {house == duplicate_house}")
    print(f"&house == &duplicate_house -> {house is duplicate_house}")
    print()

    print(house)
    print(duplicate_house)

    # Get all the flooring costs with a 10% discount
    costs = [discount_flooring(room) for room in duplicate_house]

    for room_cost in costs:
        print(f"{room_cost:.2f}")

    total = sum(costs)
    min_c = min(costs)
    max_c = max(costs)

    print(f"Total: {total:.2f}")
    print(f"Min  : {min_c:.2f}")
    print(f"Max  : {max_c:.2f}")
```

### Spaces in Expressions

There are quite a few best practices for spaces within a line, e.g., after a comma.

The [Pet Peeves section of PEP 8](https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/#pet-peeves) summarizes a few rules (most are best practices in C++, Java, and Rust).

> [!Example] Example 3: Selected Pet Peeves:
>
> Avoid extraneous whitespace in the following situations:
> 
> - Immediately inside parentheses, brackets or braces
> - Between a trailing comma and a following close [sic] parenthesis
> - Immediately before a comma, semicolon, or colon:
> - Immediately before the open parenthesis that starts the argument list of a function call
> - More than one space around an assignment (or other) operator to align it with another:
>   
> The full list is quite a bit longer but the omitted guidelines will be demonstrated in future examples.

### Variables, Functions, and Classes

- Variables will be named in snake case, e.g., 

```python
some_var = 42
```

- Constants will only be global variables

- Constants will be named in all caps with words separated by underscores, e.g., 

```python
  SPEED_OF_LIGHT: int = 299_792_458
```

- Functions and methods will be named in snake case, e.g.,

```python
    def compute_polynomial(x_values: list[float], y_values: list[float]) -> np.polynomial Polynomial:
        pass
```

- Classes will be named with Pascal Case, e.g.,

```python
@dataclass
class Cookbook:
	title: str
	author: Author
	recipes: list[Recipe] = field(default_factory=list)
```

We are _not_ going over the entire PEP 8 document right now as we've covered enough to get started. We'll see the rest later.