## The Pigeonhole Principle

If a flock of 20 pigeons roosts in a set of 19 pigeonholes, one of the pigeonholes must has more than 1 pigeon.

**Pigeonhole Principle:** If $k$ is a positive integer and $k+1$ objects are placed into $k$ boxes, then at least one box contains two or more objects.

**Proof:** We use a proof by contraposition. Suppose none of the $k$ boxes has more than one object. Then, the total number of objects would be at most $k$. This contradicts the statement that we have $k+1$ objects.

#### Examples

**Corollary 1:** A function $f$ from a set with $k+1$ elements to a set with $k$ elements is not one-to-one.

**Proof:** Use the Pigeonhole principle:
- Create a box for each element $y$ in the codomain of $f$
- Put in the box for $y$ all of the elements $x$ from the domain such that $f(x)=y$
- Because there are $k+1$ elements and only $k$ boxes, at least one box has two or more elements

Hence, $f$ can't be one-to-one.

**Problem:** Among any group of 367 people, there must be at least two with the same birthday because there are only 366 possible birthdays.

Show that for every integer $n$ there is a multiple of $n$ that has only 0s and 1s in its decimal expansion.

**Solution:** let $n$ be a positive integer. Consider the $n+1$ integers 1, 11, 111, ..., 11...1 (where the last has $n+1$ 1s). There are $n$ possible remainders when an integer is divided by $n$. By the pigeon principle, when each of the $n+1$ integers is divided by $n$, at least two must have the same remainder. Subtract the smaller from the larger and thew result is a multiple of $n$ that has only 0s and 1s in its decimal expansion.

## Generalized Pigeonhole Principle

**The Generalized Pigeonhole Principle:** If $N$ objects are placed into $k$ boxes, then there is at least one box containing at least $\lceil N/k \rceil -1$ objects.

**Proof:** We use a proof by contraposition. Suppose that none of the boxes contain more than $\lceil N/k \rceil -1$ objects. Then, the total number of objects is at most

$$k\left({\left \lceil {N \choose k} \right\rceil}\right)<k\left(\left({N \choose k} ~ ~1 \right)~ ~ 1 \right) = N$$

where the inequality $\lceil N/k \rceil < N/k + 1$ has been used. This is a contradiction because there are a total of $N$ objects.

#### Examples

**Basic Example:** Among 100 people, there are at least $\left\lceil  \frac{100}{12}  \right\rceil=9$ who were born in the same month

**Complex Example:**
a) How many cards ($N$) must be selected from a standard deck of 52 cards to guarantee that at least three cards of the same suit are chosen?
b) How many must be selected to guarantee that at least three hears are selected?

**Solution:** 
a) We assume four boxes; one for each suit (hearts, diamonds, clubs, spades). Using the generalized pigeonhole principle, at least one box contains at least $\left\lceil  \frac{N}{4}  \right\rceil$ cards. At least three cards of one suit are selected if $\left\lceil  \frac{N}{4}  \right\rceil \geq 3$. The smaller integer $N$ such that $\left\lceil  \frac{N}{4}  \right\rceil\geq 3$ is $N=2 \times 4 + 1 = 9$.

b) A deck contains 13 hearts and 39 cards that are not hearts. So, if we selected 41 cards, we may have 39 cards which are not hearts along with 2 hearts. However, when we selected 42 cards, we must have at least three hearts (Note that the generalized pigeonhole principle is not used here).




