
## One-Sided Confidence Intervals

The examples we have seen thus far have been two-sided confidence intervals with both an upper limit, $\hat{\theta}_{U}$ and lower limit, $\hat{\theta}_{L}$. There are times when a researcher is only interested in one side of the confidence interval. For example, in tensile strength, the lower bound gives the _worst-case_ scenario and is often the primary information of interest. In other examples, the upper bound may be the primary interest such as mean amount of mercury in a river.

In both of the following examples, we change the critical value to $Z_{a}$ instead of $Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}$ and only calculate the one side of the confidence interval. Hence, our probability statements are manipulated from the Central Limit Theorem as follows:

$$P\left( \frac{\overline x - \mu}{\frac{\sigma}{\sqrt{ n }}} \right)=1-\alpha$$

which gives us a _lower-bound limit_ using algebra as follows:

$$P\left[ \mu>\overline x - Z_{\alpha}\left( \frac{\sigma}{\sqrt{ n }} \right) \right]=1-\alpha$$

and

$$P(\frac{\overline x - \mu}{\frac{\sigma}{\sqrt{ n }}}>-Z_{a})=1-\alpha$$

which gives us a _upper-bound limit_ using algebra as follows:

$$P\left[ \mu<\overline x + Z_{\alpha}\left( \frac{\sigma}{\sqrt{ n }} \right) \right]$$

This leads us to the 

**Definition of One-Sided Confidence Bounds:** If $\overline x$ is the mean of a random sample of size $n$ from a population with variance, $\sigma^2$, the one-sided $100(1-\alpha)\%$ confidence bounds for $\mu$ are given by 

**Upper One-Side Bound:**

$$\hat{\theta}_{U}=\overline x+ Z_{a}\left( \frac{\sigma}{\sqrt{ n }} \right)$$

**Lower One-Side Bound:**

$$\hat{\theta}_{L}=\overline x- Z_{a}\left( \frac{\sigma}{\sqrt{ n }} \right)$$

### Examples

#### Example 1

**Problem:** In a psychological testing experiment, $25$ subjects are selected randomly and their reaction time, in seconds, to a particular stimulus is measured. Past experience suggests that the population variance in reaction times to these types of stimuli is $4 \sec 2$ and that the distribution of reaction times is approximately normal. The average time for the subjects is $6.2$ seconds. Find the upper $95\%$ bound for the mean reaction time on this sample.

**Solution:**

$95\%\mathrm{~Confidence~Interval}\to \alpha=5\%=0.05$

To find $Z_{a}$, look for $.9500$ in [[Table A3 - Areas under the Normal Curve 1.pdf|Table A3]]. Both $.9495$ and $.9505$ are the same distance away, so taking the mean will give us

$Z_{\alpha}=\frac{1.64+1.65}{2}=1.645$

$$\hat{\theta}_{U}=\overline x + Z_{a}\left( \frac{\sigma}{\sqrt{ n }} \right)$$

$$6.2+1.645\left( \frac{\sqrt{ 4 }}{\sqrt{ 25 }} \right)$$

$$=6.858 \mathrm{~Seconds}$$

Hence, we are $95\%$ confident that the mean reaction time is less than $6.858$.

> [!note]
> 
> In this example, we were given the variance instead of the standard deviation. We solved the problem using property $\sigma=\sqrt{ \sigma^2 }$

#### Example 2

**Problem:** Sample mean was calculated to be $9.8525$ psi. Assume the population standard deviation is $0.0965$ psi and tensile strength of this type of fishing line is normally distributed. Find the lower $90\%$ bound for the mean tensile strength based on this sample.

**Solution:**

$90\% \mathrm{~Confidence~Interval}\to \alpha=10\%=0.10$

To find $Z_{a}$, look for $.9000$ in [[Table A3 - Areas under the Normal Curve 1.pdf|Table A3]]. Find $.8997$ which corresponds to a Z-value of $1.28$

$Z_{a}=1.28$

$$\hat{\theta}_{L}=\overline x - Z_{a}\left( \frac{\sigma}{\sqrt{ n }} \right)$$

$$9.8525-1.28\left( \frac{0.00965}{\sqrt{ 20 }} \right)$$

$$=9.8249$$

Here, we are $90\%$ confident that the mean tensile strength of this newly developed fishing line is more than $9.8249$ psi.

- - -

> [!note]
> 
> In both examples, it is unlikely that we would know the population standard deviation, but still be estimating the population mean. It would be more appropriate in both cases to apply the Student $t$ distribution to identify critical values instead of the standard normal distribution. We will cover this in the next topic.






