## Recursive Algorithms

**Definition:** An algorithm is called _recursive_ if it solves a problem by reducing it to an instance of the same problem with smaller input.

In order for the algorithm to terminate, the instance of the problem must eventually be reduced to some initial case for which the solution is known.

### Recursive Factorial Algorithm

#### Example

**Problem:** Give a recursive algorithm for computing $n!$, where $n$ is a non-negative integer.

**Solution:** Use the recursive definition of the factorial function

```
procedure factorial(n: non-negative integer)
  if n = 0 then return 1
  else return n * factorial(n-1)

  {output is n!}
```

### Recursive Exponentiation Algorithm

#### Example

**Problem:** Give a recursive algorithm for computing $a^{n}$, where $a$ is a non-negative integer.

**Solution:** Use the recursive definition of $a^{n}$

```
procedure power(a: non-zero real number, n: non-negative integer)
  if n = 0 then return 1
  else return a * power(a, n-1)

  {output is a^n}
```

### Recursive Binary Search Algorithm

#### Example

**Problem:** Construct a recursive version of a binary search algorithm.

**Solution:** Assume we have $a_{1}, a_{2}, \dots, a_{n}$, an increasing sequence of integers. Initially, $i$ is 1 and $j$ is $n$. We are searching for $x$.

```
procedure binarysearch(i, j, x: integers, 1≤i≤j≤n)
  m := floor((i+j)/2)
  if x = a_m then
    return m
  else if (x <a_m and i<m) then
    return binarysearch(i, m-1, x)
  else if (x>a_m and j>m) then
    return binary search(m+1, j, x)
  else return 0

  {output is location of x in a_1, a_2, ..., a_n if it appears, otherwise 0}
```

### Recursive Merge Sort

##### Merge Sort

- **Merge Sort** works by iteratively splitting a list (with an even number of elements) into two sub-lists of equal length until each sub-list has one element.
- Each sub-list is represented by a balanced binary tree.
- At each step, a pair of sub-lists is successively merged into a list with the elements in increasing order.

#### Recursive Example

**Problem:** Construct a recursive merge sort algorithm.

**Solution:** Begin with the list of $n$ elements, $L$

```
procedure mergesort(L=a_1, a_2, ..., a_n)
  if n>1 then
    m := floor(n/2)
    L_1 := a_1, a_2, ..., a_n
    L_2 := a_{m+1}, a_{m+2}, ..., a_n
    L := merge(mergesort(L_1), mergesort(L_2))

    {L is now sorted into elements in increasing order}
```
