## Recap: Tests Concerning Means

The **null hypothesis** represented by $H_{0}$ is a statement that a population parameter is equal to some value. It is often thought of as something generally accepted to be true unless proven otherwise. It is essentially “innocent until proven guilty."

The **alternative hypothesis** represented by $H_{A}$ or $H_{1}$ is the statement that the parameter has a value that differs from the null hypothesis. If you formulate your own claim, it will always be the alternative hypothesis. It is often thought of as what you are trying to prove (if you can provide evidence that the null hypothesis is wrong that is).

A **test statistic** is a value used in making a decision about whether or not to reject the null hypothesis. Using data from a sample, we can calculate a statistic, which is an estimate for the population parameter about which we are conducting the test. The test statistic is found by converting this sample statistic to a score, under the assumption the null hypothesis is true.

Once we have calculated a test statistic, we can use it to evaluate the claim being tested by using statistical tools, and then decide whether to _reject_ or _fail to reject_ the null hypothesis. The basic premise is to see if our sample contains data that is consistent with the null hypothesis or not. The test statistic summarizes our sample data, and allow us to use a statistical distribution (in this case, the normal distribution) to evaluate the evidence the sample provides.

The **critical region** for a test is the set of all values of the test statistic that cause us to reject the null hypothesis. The boundary (or boundaries) for the critical region are **critical values**, which we learned about in the previous module. The critical values separate the critical region (the region where we reject the null hypothesis) from the values of the test statistic that do not lead to rejecting the null hypothesis.

The **_significance level,_** which we denote as $\alpha$, is the probability that the test statistic will fall in the critical region when the null hypothesis is actually true. If the test statistic falls in the critical region, we reject the null hypothesis, so $\alpha$ is the probability that we reject the null hypothesis when it is actually true, which is a mistake. This is the same $\alpha$ we used when defining confidence levels using $1-\alpha$ in the previous module.

Another tool we can use to evaluate the test statistic is the $p$-value. The **_$p$-value_** is the probability of getting a value of the test statistic that is at least as extreme as the one representing the sample data, assuming that the null hypothesis is true. The $p$-value is the probability of getting that particular value of the test statistic or something even further away from the center of the sampling distribution, that is, a test statistic that supports the null hypothesis even less!

- - -

## Traditional Method
### Steps to Conduct a Traditional Method Hypothesis Test

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses.
2. Determine the fixed significance level, $\alpha$, of the test (as a student this will typically be given to you - as a researcher you would set $\alpha$ based on how much error you are willing to accept).
3. Choose and calculate the appropriate test statistic. Establish the critical region and critical value(s) based on $\alpha$.
4. Make the statistical decision - if the test statistic falls in the critical region, _reject_ $H_{0}$; if the test statistic does not fall in the critical region, _fail to reject_ $H_{0}$.
5. State conclusions.

### Recap: Making the Decision using the Traditional (Critical Region) Method

Uses the significance level $\alpha$:

If the statistic falls _within_ the critical region, _reject_ $H_{0}$. In this case, the test statistic is farther away from the center than critical value, so it is outside of the range of values that support the null hypothesis.

If the test statistic falls _outside_ the critical region, _fail to reject_ $H_{0}$.

- - -

## $p$-value Method

### Steps to Conduct a $p$-value Method Hypothesis Test

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses.
2. Choose and calculate an appropriate test statistic.
3. Calculate a test statistic.
4. Compute the $p$-value based on the value of the test statistic and appropriate sampling distribution.
5. Make a statistical decision by comparing the $p$-value to the significance level of the test.
6. State conclusions.

### Recap: Making the Decision using the $p$-value Method

Uses the significance level $\alpha$:

**If $p$-value $<\alpha$, _reject_ $H_{0}$:**

This means that the probability of getting a test statistic equal to the one we go, or even farther away from the center of the curve is very small, where "small" is defined by the significance level; therefore, by the rare event rule, we determine that the null is false, and reject it.

**If $p$-value $>\alpha$, _fail to reject_ $H_{0}$:**

This means that the probability of getting a test statistic equal to the one we got, or even farther away from the center of the curve is not small enough to be considered rare when compared to the significance level; therefore, we don't have enough evidence to determine that the null is false.

- - -

## Confidence Interval Method

### Steps to Conduct a Confidence Interval Method Hypothesis Test

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses
2. Choose and calculate an appropriate confidence interval
3. Make a statistical decision by comparing the computed confidence interval to the hypotheses
4. State conclusions

### Recap: Making the Decision using the Confidence Interval Method

If a confidence interval for a population parameter does not contain the value in the null hypothesis, then we reject the null hypothesis. The confidence interval contains the most likely values of the parameter, so if the value in the null hypothesis is not contained, then it is unlikely.

If the confidence interval contains the value of the population parameter in the null hypothesis, then we fail to reject the null hypothesis.

