## Sigma Known

**Definition:** If $\overline x$ is the mean of a random sample of size $n$ from a population with known $\sigma^2$, $100(1-\alpha)\%$ confidence interval for $\mu$ is given by

$$\overline x -Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}\left( \frac{\sigma}{\sqrt{ n }} \right)<\mu<\overline x+Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}(\frac{\sigma}{\sqrt{ n }})$$

where $Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}$ is the Z-value with an are of $\frac{\alpha}{2}$ to the right.


### Example

**Problem:** People have died in boat and aircraft accidents because an obsolete estimate of the mean weight of men was used. In recent decades, the mean weight of men has increased considerably, so we need to update our estimate of that mean so that boats, aircraft, elevators, and other such devices do not become dangerously overloaded. 

**Directions:** Use a sample of 40 men with an average mean weight of 172.55 pounds to construct a $95\%$ confidence interval estimate of the mean weight of all men. Assume that the standard deviation of male weights has not changed and is still 26 pounds.

What do the results suggest about the mean weight of 166.3 pounds that was used to determine the safe passenger capacity of water vessels in 1960 (as given in the National Transportation and Safe Board safety recommendation M-04-04)

**Solution:**

$n=40$
$\overline x=172.55$ pounds
$\sigma=26$ pounds

$95\%$ confidence level $\to Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}=1.96$

$$\overline x-Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}(\frac{\sigma}{\sqrt{ n }})<\mu<\overline x + Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}(\frac{\sigma}{\sqrt{ n }})$$

$$172.55-1.96(\frac{26}{\sqrt{ 40 }})<\mu<172.55+1.96(\frac{26}{\sqrt{ 40 }})$$

$$164.99<\mu<180.61$$

We have $95\%$ confidence that the interval between $164.49$ and $180.61$ pounds contains the true value of the mean weight of men.

Based on the confidence interval, it is possible that the mean weight of $166.3$ pounds used in 1960 could be the mean weight of men today since the value of $166.3$ is contained within the confidence limits.

However, considering that an underestimate of the mean weight of men could result in lives lost through overloaded boats and aircraft and the $166.3$ was towards the lower limit of the confidence interval, possibly additional data should have been collected.

> [!note]
> 
> This example stated 
> “Assume that the population standard deviation of male weights has not changed and is still 26 pounds.” 
> 
> Here we know the value of the population standard deviation even though the population mean is unknown. This allows us to use the standard normal distribution for our critical value $Z_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}$.
> 
> When the population standard deviation is not known, then the critical value will come instead from a Student's t distribution presented later in this module.



