## Definitions

A system of $m$ linear equations in $n$ unknowns (or, _linear system_) can be written as

$$ \begin{array}{cccccc} a_{11}x_1 & + & \cdots & + & a_{1n}x_n & = b_1 \\ \vdots    &   &        &   & \vdots    & \vdots \\ a_{m1}x_1 & + & \cdots & + & a_{mn}x_n & = b_m \end{array} $$

with real numbers $a_{ij}$ and $b_{i}$
- $a_{ij}$ - The _coefficient_ in the $i$th equation associated with the $j$th _unknown_
- $b_{i}$ - The RHS value in the $i$th equation

The $n$-vector $\begin{bmatrix}S_{1} \\ \vdots \\ S_{n}\end{bmatrix}$ is called a _solution_ of the linear system, if substituting $x_{1}=s_{1},\dots,x_{n}=s_{n}$ into the system above results in each equation become a true equality.

### Matrix Representation of Linear Systems

$$A=\begin{bmatrix}a_{11}&\dots&a_{1n} \\ \vdots&\ddots&\vdots \\ a_{m1}&\dots&a_{mn}\end{bmatrix},~\vec{b}=\begin{bmatrix}
b_{1} \\ \vdots \\ b_{m}\end{bmatrix},~\vec{x}=\begin{bmatrix} x_{1} \\ \vdots \\ x_{n} \end{bmatrix}$$

$A$ is a _coefficient matrix_ ($m \times n$)

$$A\vec{x} \implies \begin{bmatrix}a_{11}x_{1}+\dots+a_{1n}x_{n} \\ \vdots \\ a_{m1}x_{1}+\dots+a_{mn}x_{n}\end{bmatrix}=\begin{bmatrix}b_{1} \\ \vdots \\ b_{m}\end{bmatrix}$$

which gives us

$$ \begin{array}{cccccc} a_{11}x_1 & + & \cdots & + & a_{1n}x_n & = b_1 \\ \vdots    &   &        &   & \vdots    & \vdots \\ a_{m1}x_1 & + & \cdots & + & a_{mn}x_n & = b_m \end{array} $$

We can also form

$$[~A~|~\vec{b}~]=\begin{bmatrix}a_{11}&\dots&a_{1n}&|&b_{1} \\ \vdots&\ddots&\vdots&|&\vdots \\ a_{m1}&\dots&a_{mn}&|&b_{m}\end{bmatrix}$$

$[~A~|~\vec{b}~]$ is an _augmented matrix_ ($m \times n+1$)

### Reduced Row Echelon Form (r.r.e.f)

A matrix $A$ is said to be in r.r.e.f if it satisfies the following:

1. If there are any zero rows in $A$, these are positioned _below_ all other (nonzero) rows.
2. Every nonzero row of $A$ must have its first nonzero entry _equal to 1_. It is called the _leading entry_ of that row.
	- Leading column - a column that contains a leading entry
	- Non-leading column - a column without a leading entry
3. For any two nonzero rows of $A$, the _leading entry_ of the row _below_ is located to the _right_ of the _leading entry_ of the row _above_.
	- Leading entries follow a "staircase pattern"
4. If any _column_ contains a _leading entry_, all remaining entries must _equal zero_.

### Row Echelon Form (r.e.f)

A matrix $A$ is said to be in r.e.f form if it satisfies conditions _1-3_ above.

### Example 1

$$A=\begin{bmatrix}1&0&1 \\ 0&1&0 \\ 0&0&0\end{bmatrix}$$

- Condition 1 satisfied? _Yes_, we have a zero row positioned below all nonzero rows
- Condition 2 satisfied? _Yes_, we have 2 nonzero rows with 2 respective leading entries $=1$
- Condition 3 satisfied? _Yes_, the leading entry in the second nonzero row is to the right
- Condition 4 satisfied? _Yes_, each column has a single 1 with remaining entries $=0$

Therefore, $A$ is in reduced row echelon form (r.r.e.f.) (also in r.e.f.)

### Example 2

$$B=\begin{bmatrix}1&0 \\ 0&0 \\ 0&1\end{bmatrix}$$

- Condition 1 satisfied? _No_, we have a zero row in between two nonzero rows

Therefore, $B$ is not in r.e.f. (or in r.r.e.f.)

### Example 3

$$C=\begin{bmatrix}1&2&3 \\ 0&1&0\end{bmatrix}$$

- Condition 1 satisfied? _Yes_, there are no zero rows, so this automatically holds true
- Condition 2 satisfied? _Yes_, the leading entry of each row is $=1$
- Condition 3 satisfied? _Yes_, the leading entry in the second nonzero row is to the right
- Condition 4 satisfied? _No_, not all entries of nonzero columns (besides 1) $=0$

Therefore, $C$ is in r.e.f. but _not_ in r.r.e.f.

### Example 4

$$D=\begin{bmatrix}1&0&0&0 \\ 0&2&0&0 \\ 0&0&1&0\end{bmatrix}$$

- Condition 1 satisfied? _Yes_, there are no zero rows, so this automatically holds true
- Condition 2 satisfied? _No_, the leading entry of the second nonzero row is _not_ $=1$

Therefore, $F$ is not in r.e.f. (or r.r.e.f.)

### Example 5

$$H=\begin{bmatrix}0&1&0 \\ 1&0&0 \\ 0&0&1\end{bmatrix}$$

- Condition 1 satisfied? _Yes_, there are no zero rows, so this automatically holds true
- Condition 2 satisfied? _Yes_, the leading entry of each row is $=1$
- Condition 3 satisfied? _No_, the leading entry of the second row is positioned to the left

Therefore, $H$ is not in r.e.f. (or r.r.e.f.)

### Additional Examples in r.r.e.f.

$$D=\begin{bmatrix}1&0&0&0 \\ 0&0&1&5 \\ 0&0&0&0\end{bmatrix}$$

$$E=\begin{bmatrix}0&0&1&100\end{bmatrix}$$

$$G=\begin{bmatrix}0&0 \\ 0&0\end{bmatrix}$$
