## Sigma Unknown Examples

#### Example 1

**Problem:** A common claim is that garlic lowers cholesterol levels. In a test of the effectiveness of garlic, $26$ subjects were treated with doses of raw garlic, and their cholesterol levels were measured before and after the treatment. The changes in their levels of LDL cholesterol (in mg/dL) have a mean of $0.4$, a standard deviation of $21.0$, and follow a normal distribution.

Construct a $95\%$ confidence interval estimate of the mean net change in LDL cholesterol after the garlic treatment. What does the confidence interval suggest about the effectiveness of garlic in reducing LDL cholesterol?

**Solution:**

The standard deviation given is _NOT_ a population standard deviation, but a standard deviation for the sample of 26 subjects.

$n=26$
$\overline x = 0.4$
$s=21.0$

Find $t_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}$:
1. $\alpha=1-\mathrm{Confidence~Interval}=1-0.95=0.05$
2. $\frac{\alpha}{2}=\frac{0.05}{2}=0.025$
3. $\nu=n-1=26-1=25$
4. Using $\nu=25$ and $\alpha=0.025$ in [Table A.4](./Resources/Table%20A4%20-%20Critical%20Values%20of%20the%20t%20Distribution.pdf), find the critical value $2.060$

Plug into new formula:
$t_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}=2.060$

$$\overline x - t_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}\left( \frac{s}{\sqrt{ n }} \right)<\mu<\overline x + t_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}\left( \frac{s}{\sqrt{ n }} \right)$$

$$0.4-2.060\left( \frac{21.0}{\sqrt{ 26 }} \right)<\mu<0.4+2.060\left( \frac{21.0}{\sqrt{ 26 }} \right)$$

$$-8.08<\mu<8.88$$

Therefore, we have $95\%$ confidence that the interval between $-8.08$ and $8.88$ contains the true value of the mean net change in LDL cholesterol after the garlic treatment.

Because the confidence interval limits contain the value of 0, it is very possible that the mean of the changes in LDL cholesterol is equal to 0, suggesting that the garlic treatment did not effect the LDL cholesterol levels.

#### Example 2

**Problem:** The contents of 7 similar containers of sulfuric acid are $9.8,10.2,10.4,9.8,10.0,10.2,$ and $9.6$ liters. Find a $99\%$ confidence interval for the mean contents of all such containers, assuming an approximately normal distribution.

**Solution:** Here, sample data is given and we start by calculating the sample mean and sample standard deviation using software or the formulas learned in earlier modules.

$n=7$
$\overline x=\frac{\sum_{i=1}^7 x_{i}}{n}=10.0$
$s=\sqrt{ \frac{\sum_{i=1}^7 (x_{i}-\overline x)^2}{n-1}}=0.283$

Find $t_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}$:
1. $\alpha=1-\mathrm{Confidence~Interval}=1-0.9=0.01$
2. $\frac{\alpha}{2}=0.005$
3. $\nu=n-1=7-1=6$
4. Using $\nu=6$ and $\alpha=0.005$ in [Table A.4](./Resources/Table%20A4%20-%20Critical%20Values%20of%20the%20t%20Distribution.pdf), find the critical value $3.707$

Plug into new formula:
$t_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}=3.707$

$$\overline x - t_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}\left( \frac{s}{\sqrt{ n }} \right)<\mu<\overline x + t_{\frac{\alpha}{2}}\left( \frac{s}{\sqrt{ n }} \right)$$

$$10.0-3.707\left( \frac{0.283}{\sqrt{ 7 }} \right)<\mu<10.0+3.707\left( \frac{0.283}{\sqrt{ 7 }} \right)$$

$$9.60<\mu<10.40$$

Based on the sample of 7 containers, one can be $99\%$ confident that the interval between $9.60$ and $10.40$ liters contains the true mean amount of sulfuric acid per container.

> [!note]
> 
> Software will not available to calculate the sample mean and sample standard deviation during an exam. You will need to review how to calculate these values by hand for small samples such as Example 2 above.
