## Pointers: Value Semantics

It's important to understand the cost of using pointers in Go.

### Pass By Value

When we mention _pass by value_, we are referring to how Go inherently makes copies of data as we transition through program boundaries.

Consider the following program:

```Go
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
	count := 10

	fmt.Printf("count has value %d and is located at %v\n", count, &count)
	
	increment(count)
	
	fmt.Printf("count has value %d and is located at %v\n", count, &count)
}

func increment(num int) {
	num++
	fmt.Printf("num has value %d and is located at %v\n", num, &num)
}
```

### The Stack

How does this program work on the stack?

It's important to first:
- Define a _goroutine_ as a path of execution and 
- Understand that as we move forward, we'll regard a _value_ as what's inside the box (an int in this case), an _address_ as the location of box in memory, and _data_ as both the value and the address

**Stack Process:**

1. Program executes
   
| `main` |     | $\leftarrow$ Goroutine |
| ------ | --- | ---------------------- |
   
2. In `main`, we create and initialize `count` to `10`, then print its value and address.  
   
| `main` | `count` 10 | $\leftarrow$ Goroutine |
| ------ | ---------- | ---------------------- |
   
3. We print the value of `count` as well as its address using `&`.  Then, we call `increment(count)`
	- Here, the goroutine moves to `increment` and a copy of `count` is made. This is what we call _value semantics_.
   
| `main`      | `count` 10 |                        |
| ----------- | ---------- | ---------------------- |
| `increment` | `num` 10   | $\leftarrow$ Goroutine |

4. Inside this function, we first add 1 to `num`, the _copy_ of `count`. Then, we also print the value and location of `num` within the function. 
	- The goroutine can't affect any of other part of the program except this one.

| `main`      | `count` 10 |                        |
| ----------- | ---------- | ---------------------- |
| `increment` | `num` 11   | $\leftarrow$ Goroutine |

5. The goroutine returns back to `main`
   
| `main`      | `count` 10 | $\leftarrow$ Goroutine |
| ----------- | ---------- | ---------------------- |
| `increment` | `num` 11   |                        

### Program Output

With all of this in place, on my local machine, the program outputs

```sh
count has value 10 and is located at 0x1400000e0e0
num has value 11 and is located at 0x1400000e0e8
count has value 10 and is located at 0x1400000e0e0
```

As we can see, the copy of `count` never changes and therefore remains at the same memory location. However, we notice that the copy successfully incremented and is 1 byte or 8 bits lower in memory.

### Value Semantics

Remember _value semantics:_ the idea that every single function gets its own copy of data.

The cost of value semantics is _inefficiency_ as they can sometimes create too much complexity. For instance, if we want to give data to 4 people, they would each get a copy and modify their own copies, fair enough, but what if we want an overall view on what all the data looks like? In a situation like this, value semantics don't work. What do we use then? Pointer semantics.

### Pointer Semantics

Pointers let us _share_ instead of copy values across program boundaries. This allows for much more efficiency. However, they come with a cost too: _side effects_. Let's see how these look in action in [[(M1.3.2) Pointers - Pointer Semantics]] .

