## Structs

### Struct Definition

Structs are defined using the `type` keyword followed by a name and the `struct` keyword. For instance,

```go
type car struct {
	color string
	maker string
	model string
	year int
}
```

### Declaring Structs

There are a few ways to declare structs, depending on initialization needs.

#### Zero Value Declaration

Declare a struct with zero values for its fields:

```go
var myCar car // All fields are zeroed
```

#### Struct Literal

Initialize a struct with specific field values:

```go
myCar := car {
	color: "White",
	maker: "Toyota",
	model: "Camry",
	year: 2024,
}
```

#### Empty Literal Declaration

Use an empty struct literal _only_ for specific scenarios like function returns or parameter passing:

```go
myCar := car{} // Equivalent to var myCar car
```

Otherwise, `var` should be used to simply declare a struct with zero values.

### Accessing Struct Fields

Access and modify the fields using the dot notation:

```go
fmt.Printf("My %d %s %s is %s.\n", myCar.year, myCar.maker, myCar.model, myCar.color)
```

### The Empty Struct

The empty struct, `struct{}{}`, consumes no storage and is often used in situations where the behavior or presence of a type is required, but no associated data needs to be stored. We'll learn more about these later on.

### Structs and Memory

Within memory, the size of a struct is affected by

- **Alignment**: Fields in a struct are aligned in memory based on their types to optimize access speed. This alignment is to the natural boundaries of the data types (e.g., `int64` on an 8-byte boundary).

- **Padding**: To meet alignment requirements, padding might be added between fields or at the end of the struct. This ensures that each field starts at an appropriate memory address boundary.

Structs are referred to as _composite types_ because they can contain multiple different data types, allowing complex data structures to be easily managed and accessed in Go programs.
