## Textbook Notes (Section 1.1)

### What is the Internet?

There are two ways of answering this:
1. The basic software and hardware components that make it up, essentially the nuts and bolts
2. In terms of a networking infrastructure that provides services to applications

### 1. Nuts-and-Bolts Description

The Internet is essentially is a computer network that connects billions of devices all over the world. 

In the past, these devices were limited to desktop PCs, Linux workstations, and server that store and transmit things like Web pages and e-mail messages.

However, today we see devices like laptops, smartphones, tablets, TVs, eye glasses, and cars being connected to the Internet.

All of these devices are called ***hosts*** or ***end systems***.

End systems are connected to one another by a network of ***communication links*** and ***packet switches***. 

Links can transmit data at different rates, with the ***transmission rate*** of a link measured in bits/second.

When an end system has data to send to another, the sending end system segments the data and adds header bytes to each segment. The resulting packages of information are know as ***packets***.

The two most common examples of packet switches are ***routers*** and ***link-layer switches***.
They both forward packets toward their ultimate destinations.

The sequence of communication links and packet switches traversed by a packet from the sending end system to the receiving end system is know as a ***route*** or ***path*** through the network.

End systems access the Internet through ***Internet Service Providers (ISPs)***. Every ISP is in itself a network of packet switches and communication links. They provide network access to end systems through things like residential broadband access like cable modem or DSL, high-speed local area network access, and mobile wireless access.

End systems, packet switches, and other pieces of the Internet run ***protocols*** that control the sending and receiving of information within the Internet. 

The ***Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)*** and the ***Internet Protocol (IP)*** are two of the most important protocols in the Internet. The IP specifies the format of the packets that are sent and received among routers and end systems.

The Internet's principal protocols are collectively know as ***TCP/IP***.

Protocols are a standard that everyone should agree on so we can create systems and products that interoperate. ***Internet standards*** are developed by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). The IETF standards documents are called ***request for comments (RFCs)***. They define protocols like TCP, IP, HTTP (for the Web), and SMTP (for e-mail).

### 2. A Services Description

When the Internet is described as an infrastructure that provides services to applications, common examples of applications are music/movie streaming, multiplayer games, and video conferences. These applications are referred to as ***distributed applications*** since they involve multiple end systems that interact with each other.

It is important to note that applications run on end systems and ***not*** in the packet switches in the network core.

End systems attached to the Internet provide a ***socket interface***, which specifies how a program running on one end system asks the Internet infrastructure to deliver data to a specific destination program running on another end system.

The socket interface is essentially a set of rules and is easier to understand with an analogy. If Tom wants to mail Bob a letter through the postal service, Tom can't just drop the letter out of his window and hope it somehow makes its way to Bob. Instead, he must enclose the letter in an envelope and address it to Bob so that the postal service knows who and where to get it to. Thus, the postal service has its own "postal service interface," or set of rules Tom should follow to have them deliver the letter to Tom properly.

### What Is a Protocol?

What even is a protocol, really? It's best to use another human analogy to understand this.

##### Human Protocol

Imagine you want to ask a stranger for the time. A good-mannered exchange may start with you greeting them with a simple "Hi" or "Hello". The typical response from the other person would be something similar, then you would proceed ask them for the time of day. At that point, the person asking is informed the time, and the person who gave the time may also have a refresher on what time it is. However, it may not turn out that cordial. For instance, the other person might respond with "Go away!" or "Don't bother me!", or something worse. In the latter case, unwillingness to communicate shows, likely resulting in the person not asking for the time.

The point is, it takes two (or more) communicating entities running the sake protocol in order to accomplish a task.

##### Network Protocol

Now how does this work in the context of a network? Well, it's similar to a human protocol, except that the entities exchanging messages and taking actions are hardware or software components of some device (i.e. computer, smartphone, tablet, router, or other network-capable device).

An example of a computer network protocol familiar to most people is when a request is made to a Web server by typing the URL of a Web page into your Web browser.

First, your computer will send a connection request message to the Web server and wait for a reply. The Web server will eventually receive your connection request message and return a connection reply message. Know that it is now OK to request the Web document, you computer then sends the name of the Web page it wants to fetch from that Web server in a GET message. Finally, the Web server returns the Web page (file) to your computer.

Given the human and networking examples, the exchange of messages and the action taken when these messages are sent and received are the key defining elements of a protocol:

	A protocol defines the format and the order of messages exchanged between two or more communicating entities as well as the actions taken on the transmission and/or receipt of a message or other event.

Protocols are extensively used by the Internet and computer networks in general to accomplish different communication tasks. Some protocols are simple and straightforward, while other are complex.






## Video Notes (Modularized Textbook Notes)
These are just pulled from the textbook; they're more of a high-level overview.
### What is the Internet?
#### The Nuts-and-Bolts View

- **Millions of connected computing devices**
  - hosts = end systems
  - running network apps

- **Communication links**
  - Different media (fiber, copper wire, radio, satellite)
  - Different transmission rates - bits per second (bps)
    - 10<sup>3</sup> (Kbps) to 10<sup>6</sup> (Mbps) to 10<sup>9</sup> (Gbps)

- **Routers**
  - Forward packets of data through the network

Anything that uses the Internet to communicate is considered an end system. This includes things like smartphones, Internet refrigerators, etc.

- **Protocols: control sending, receiving of messages**
  - E.g., TCP, IP, HTTP, SMTP

- **Internet: "network of networks"**
  - Loosely hierarchical
  - ISPs: Internet Service Providers

- **Internet Standards**
  - RFC: Request for comments
  - IETF: Internet Engineering Task Force

#### The Services View

- **A communication infrastructure enabling distributed applications:**
  - Web, e-mail, VoIP, games, e-commerce, file-sharing, voting, ...

- **Communication services provided to apps**
  - Reliable data delivery from source to destination
  - "Best effort" (unreliable) data delivery

#### What is a Protocol?

| Human Protocols         |          Both                      | Network Protocols                          |
|-------------------------|------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| - "Do you have the time?"<br>- "I have a question"<br>- Introductions | - Specific messages sent<br>- Specific actions taken when messages (or other events) received | - Machines rather than humans<br>- All communication activity in Internet governed by protocols |



