## $p$-value Method Example

### Steps to Conduct a $p$-value Method Hypothesis Test

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses.
2. Choose and calculate an appropriate test statistic.
3. Compute the $p$-value based on the value of the test statistic and appropriate sampling distribution.
4. Make a statistical decision by comparing the $p$-value to the significance level of the test.
5. State conclusions

### Example

**Problem:** An urban community would like to show that the incidence of breast cancer is higher in their area than in a nearby rural area. (PCB levels were found to be higher in the soil of the urban community.) If it is found that 20 of 200 adult women in the urban community have breast cancer and 12 of 150 adult women in the rural community have breast cancer, can we conclude at the 0.05 level of significance that breast cancer is more prevalent in the urban community?

**Solution:**

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses:

$$H_{0}:p_{1}=p_{2}$$
$$H_{1}:p_{1}>p_{2}$$

2. Choose and calculate the appropriate test statistic:

$$\hat{p}_{1}=\frac{X_{1}}{n_{1}}=\frac{20}{200}=0.10$$
$$\hat{p}_{2}=\frac{X_{2}}{n_{2}}=\frac{12}{150}=0.08$$

$$\hat{p}=\frac{X_{1}+X_{2}}{n_{1}+n_{2}}=\frac{20+12}{200+150}=0.091$$
$$\hat{q}=1-\hat{p}=1-0.091=0.909$$

Therefore,

$$Z=\frac{\hat{p}_{1}-\hat{p}_{2}}{\sqrt{ \hat{p}\hat{q}\left( \frac{1}{n_{1}}+\frac{1}{n_{2}} \right) }}=\frac{0.10-0.08}{\sqrt{ (0.091)(0.909)\left( \frac{1}{200}+\frac{1}{150} \right) }}=0.64$$

3. Compute the $p$-value:

- This is a right-tailed test since the alternative is greater than.
- We want to first find the area in the right tail that corresponds to $Z=0.64$.
- From [Table A.3](./Resources/Table_A3.pdf), we find the area to the left of $Z=0.64$ is $0.7389$, which means the area in the right tail is $1-0.7389=0.2611$. Our $p$-value is $0.2611$

4. Make a statistical decision:

Since the $p$ value of $0.2611$ is _greater than_ the significance level of $0.05$, we _fail to reject_ the null hypothesis.

5. State conclusions:

There is _not_ sufficient evidence at a 5% level of significance support the claim that breast cancer is more prevalent in the urban community.