## Traditional Method Example

### Steps to Conduct a Traditional Method Hypothesis Test

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses.
2. Determine the fixed significance level,Â $\alpha$, of the test (as a student this will typically be given to you - as a researcher you would setÂ ð›¼Â based on how much error you are willing to accept).
3. Choose and calculate the appropriate test statistic. Establish the critical region and critical value(s) based on $\alpha$.
4. Make the statistical decision - if the test statistic falls in the critical region,Â _**reject**_Â $H_{0}$; if the test statistic does not fall in the critical region,Â **_fail to reject_**Â $H_{0}$.
5. State conclusions.

### Example

**Problem:** A vote is to be taken among the residents of a town and the surrounding county to determine whether a proposed chemical plant should be constructed. The construction site is within the town limits, and for this reason many voters in the county believe that the proposal will pass because of the large proportion of town voters who favor the construction. To determine if there is a significant difference in the proportions of town voters and county voters favoring the proposal, a poll is taken. If 120 of 200 town voters favor the proposal and 240 of 500 county residents favor it, would you agree that the proportion of town voters favoring the proposal is higher than the proportion of county voters? Use a 0.05 level of significance.

**Solution:**

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses: 

$$H_{0}:p_{1}=p_{2}$$
$$H_{1}:p_{1}>p_{2}$$

2. Determine the fixed significance level, $\alpha$:

$$\alpha=0.05$$

3. Calculate the test statistic:

$$\hat{p}_{1}=\frac{X_{1}}{n_{1}}=\frac{120}{200}=0.60$$
$$\hat{p}_{1}=\frac{X_{2}}{n_{2}}=\frac{240}{500}=0.48$$

$$\hat{p}=\frac{X_{1}+X_{2}}{n_{1}+n_{2}}=\frac{120+240}{200+500}=0.51$$
$$q_{1}=1-\hat{p}=1-0.51=0.49$$

Therefore,

$$Z=\frac{\hat{p}_{1}-\hat{p}_{2}}{\sqrt{ \hat{p}\hat{q}\left( \frac{1}{n_{1}}+\frac{1}{n_{2}} \right) }}=\frac{0.60-0.48}{\sqrt{ (0.51)(0.49)\left( \frac{1}{200}+\frac{1}{500} \right) }}=2.87$$

Find the critical region and critical value:

- This is a right-tailed test since the alternative is greater than, so the critical value will cutoff an area of $\alpha=0.05$ in the right tail of the Standard Normal Distribution.
- Looking for the area to the left of $1-0.05=0.9500$ inside the body of [Table A.3](./Resources/Table_A3.pdf), we find $.9495$ and $0.9505$. Because they're equally distanced, we have to get the average of both, which is $\frac{1.64+1.65}{2}=1.645$.
- Therefore, the critical value is $Z=1.645$

4. Make the statistical decision:

Since the test statistic $2.87$ is greater than the critical value $1.645$, we say it falls _within_ the critical region, therefore we _reject_ $H_{0}$.

5. State conclusions:

There is _sufficient_ evidence at a 5% level of significance to support the claim that the proportion of town voters favoring the proposal is higher than the proportion of county voters.