## Test Statistic

Recall a _test statistic_ is a value used in making a decision about whether or not to reject the null hypothesis. Using data from a sample, we can calculate a statistic, which is an estimate for the population parameter about which we are conducting the test. The test statistic is found by converting this sample statistic to a score, under the assumption the null hypothesis is true.

In the case of testing when two populations are equal, the test statistic we will use to base our decision on will use the sample statistic, $\hat{p}_{1}-\hat{p}_{2}$.

$$Z=\frac{(\hat{p}_{1}-\hat{p}_{2})-(p_{1}-p_{2})}{\sqrt{ \frac{p_{1}q_{1}}{\frac{n_{1}+p_{2}q_{2}}{n_{2}}} }}$$

Remember, $\hat{p}_{1}$ and $\hat{p}_{2}$ are calculated from independent samples of sizes $n_{1}$ and $n_{2}$ and $p_{1}-p_{2}$ is the value in the null hypothesis.

When $H_{0}$ is true, we can substitute $p_{1}=p_{2}=p$ and $q_{1}=q_{2}=q$ (where $p$ and $q$ are the common values). This gives us the test statistic formula:

$$Z=\frac{(\hat{p}_{1}-\hat{p}_{2})-0}{\sqrt{ pq(\frac{1}{n_{1}}+\frac{1}{n_{2}}) }}$$

where $p$ can be estimated by

$$\hat{p}=\frac{X_{1}+X_{2}}{n_{1}+n_{2}}$$

which is called the _pooled estimate of the common proportion_ $p$.

### Test Statistic for Tests on Two Proportions

$$Z=\frac{\hat{p}_{1}-\hat{p}_{2}}{\sqrt{ \hat{p}\hat{q}\left( \frac{1}{n_{1}}+\frac{1}{n_{2}} \right) }}$$

where $p$ can be estimated by

$$\hat{p}=\frac{X_{1}+X_{2}}{n_{1}+n_{2}}$$

### Example

**Problem:** A vote is to be taken among the residents of a town and the surrounding county to determine whether a proposed chemical plant should be constructed. The construction site is within the town limits, and for this reason many voters in the county believe that the proposal will pass because of the large proportion of town voters who favor the construction. To determine if there is a significant difference in the proportions of town voters and county voters favoring the proposal, a poll is taken. If 120 of 200 town voters favor the proposal and 240 of 500 county residents favor it, calculate the test statistic to be used to test the claim.

**Solution:**

The hypotheses are:

$$H_{0}:p_{1}=p_{2}$$
$$H_{1}:p_{1}>p_{2}$$

To calculate the test statistic, start by finding the two sample proportions and the pooled estimate of the common proportion.

- $\hat{p}_{1}=\frac{X_{1}}{n_{1}}=\frac{120}{200}=0.60$
- $\hat{p}_{2}=\frac{X_{2}}{n_{2}}=\frac{240}{500}=0.48$

- $\hat{p}=\frac{X_{1}+X_{2}}{n_{1}+n_{2}}=\frac{120+240}{200+500}=0.51$
- $\hat{q}=1-\hat{p}=1-0.51=0.49$

Therefore,

$$Z=\frac{\hat{p}_{1}-\hat{p}_{2}}{\sqrt{ \hat{p}\hat{q}\left( \frac{1}{n_{1}}+\frac{1}{n_{2}} \right) }}=\frac{0.60-0.48}{\sqrt{ (0.51)(0.49)\left( \frac{1}{200}+\frac{1}{500} \right) }}=2.87$$













- $\hat{p}_{1}=\frac{X_{1}}{n_{1}}=\frac{20}{200}=0.10$
- $\hat{p}_{2}=\frac{X_{2}}{n_{2}}=\frac{12}{150}=0.08$

- $\hat{p}=\frac{X_{1}+X_{2}}{n_{1}+n_{2}}=\frac{20+12}{200+150}=0.0914$
- $\hat{q}=1-\hat{p}=1-0.51=0.9086$

Therefore,

$$Z=\frac{\hat{p}_{1}-\hat{p}_{2}}{\sqrt{ \hat{p}\hat{q}\left( \frac{1}{n_{1}}+\frac{1}{n_{2}} \right) }}=\frac{0.10-0.08}{\sqrt{ (0.0914)(0.9086)\left( \frac{1}{200}+\frac{1}{150} \right) }}=$$