## Null and Alternative Hypotheses

A political consultant claims that the proportion of voters in City A that support her candidate is lower than the proportion of voters in City B that support her candidate. Let's look at how the political consultant will setup the hypotheses to test her claim?

Just like for claims concerning a single population proportion, for testing claims concerning the difference between 2 population proportions, the first step is to write the the hypotheses.

The _null hypothesis_ represented by $H_{0}$ will be a statement that there is no difference between the two population proportions. The null hypothesis for no difference between the two proportions can generally be written as

$$H_{0}:p_{1}=p_{2}=d_{0}$$

<p align="center">or</p>

$$H_{0}:p_{1}=p_{2}$$

The _alternative hypothesis_ represented by $H_{a}$ or $H_{1}$ is the statement that the two population proportions differ. The three possibilities for the alternative hypothesis can be written as

$$H_{1}:p_{1}-p_{2}\neq 0$$
$$H_{1}:p_{1}-p_{2}<0$$
$$H_{1}:p_{1}-p_{2}>0$$

<p align="center">or</p>

$$H_{1}:p_{1}\neq p_{2}$$
$$H_{1}:p_{1}<p_{2}$$
$$H_{1}:p_{1}>p_{2}$$

### Example

**Problem:** Let's go back to the political consultant in the first statement. She claims that the proportion of voters in City A that support her candidate is lower than the proportion of voters in City B that support her candidate. 


**Solution:** The null and alternative hypotheses would be:

$$H_{0}:p_{1}-p_{2}=0$$
$$H_{1}:p_{1}-p_{2}<0$$

<p align="center">which could also be written as</p>

$$H_{0}:p_{1}=p_{2}$$
$$H_{1}:p_{1}<p_{2}$$

This is a one-tailed test, specifically a _left-tailed_ hypothesis test.

