## Type I Error, Type II Error, and Power

When we do a hypothesis test, we are drawing a conclusion about a population parameter based on data from a sample since we cannot measure the entire population. Based on what the sample data shows through the test statistic, we will decide to reject or fail to reject the null hypothesis. Sometimes, our sample can lead us to draw an incorrect conclusion. There are two types of errors that can be made in hypothesis testing.

**Type I Error:** Occurs when we reject the null hypothesis when it is actually true
**Type II Error:** Occurs when we fail to reject the null hypothesis when it is actually false

|                        | $H_{0}$ true | $H_{0}$ false |
| ---------------------- | ------------ | ------------- |
| Reject $H_{0}$         | Type I Error | Correct       |
| Fail to reject $H_{0}$ | Correct      | Type II Error |

We do not actually know whether we have committed an error or not, but we can talk about the probability that we have made an error in hypothesis testing.

The _probability of committing a Type I Error_ is the same as the significance level of the test, and is represented by $\alpha$:

$$P(\mathrm{reject}~H_{0}~|~H_{0}\mathrm{~true})=\alpha$$

The _probability of committing a Type II Error_ is often represented by $\beta$:

$$P(\mathrm{fail~to~reject~}H_{0}~|~H_{0}\mathrm{~false})=\beta$$

We call the quantity $(1-\beta)$ the _power_ of the test - this is the probability that we correctly reject the null hypothesis when it is false.

$$P(\mathrm{reject}~H_{0}~|~H_{0}\mathrm{~false})=1-\beta=\mathrm{Power}$$

The probability of these errors are related to each other and the sample size:

- As $\alpha$ decreases (less chance of a Type I Error), $\beta$ increases (more chance of a Type II Error), which causes Power to decrease (undesired effect).
- Generally, Type I and Type II Errors are related. A decrease in the probability of one results in an increase in the probability of the other.
- As $n$ increases, the probability of Type I and Type II Errors will decrease.
- If a researcher wants to decrease both $\alpha$ and $\beta$, they should increase their sample size.

Typically, when we conduct a test, we set $\alpha$ beforehand, and then the value of $\beta$ and power are determined by the significance level we set and the sample size.