## Making the Decision

When we conduct a hypothesis test, we will make one of two decisions:

1. Reject the null hypothesis
2. Fail to reject the null hypothesis

Remember that the null is accepted as "true" unless proven otherwise. We collect a sample to see of we can find sufficient evidence to dispute the null hypothesis. After calculating a test statistic, we can use critical regions/values or a $p$-value to determine if there is enough evidence to reject the null hypothesis.

### $p$-value Method

Using a significance level $\alpha$:

$$\mathrm{If}~p < \alpha, \mathrm{~reject~} H_{0}$$

This means that the probability of getting a test statistic equal to the one we got, or even farther away from the center of the curve is very small, where "small" is defined by the significance level; therefore, by the rare event rule, we determine that the null is false, and reject it.

$$\mathrm{If}~p>\alpha, \mathrm{~fail~to~reject} H_{0}$$

This means that the probability of getting a test statistic equal to the one we get, or even farther away from farther away from the center of the curve is not small enough to be considered rare when compared to the significance level; therefore, we don't have enough evidence to determine that the null is false.

### Traditional (Critical Region) Method

Using the significance level $\alpha$:

If the test statistic falls within the critical region, _reject $H_{0}$_. In this case, the test statistic is farther away from the center than the critical value, so it is outside of the range of values that support the null hypothesis.

If the test statistic falls outside of the critical region, _fail to reject $H_{0}$_.

### Confidence Interval Method

If a confidence interval for a population parameter does not contain the value in the null hypothesis, then we reject the null hypothesis. The confidence interval contains the most likely values of the parameter, so if the value in the null hypothesis is not contained, then it is unlikely.

If the confidence interval contains the value of the population parameter in the null hypothesis, then we fail to reject the null hypothesis.

For example, if we are conducting a hypothesis test with the hypothesis:

$H_{0}:\mu=0.4$
$H_{1}:\mu \neq 0.4$

and we calculate a $95\%$ confidence interval $(0.6, 0.9)$, then we would reject the null hypothesis since $0.4$ is not in the confidence interval. The significance level of the test is $5\%$ ($1-\mathrm{Confidence~Level}$). Note that _we'll only use this method for two-tailed tests_.


