## Test Statistic

### Test Statistic

A _test statistic_ is a value used in making a decision about whether or not to reject the null hypothesis. Using data from a sample, we can calculate a statistic, which is an estimate for the population parameter about which we are conducting the test. The test statistic is found by converting this sample statistic to a score, under the assumption the null hypothesis is true.

Once we have calculated a test statistic, we can use it to evaluate the claim being tested by using statistical tools, and then decide whether to reject or fail to reject the null hypothesis. The basic premise is to see if our sample contains data that is consistent with the null hypothesis or not. The test statistic summarizes our sample data, and allow us to use a statistical distribution (in this case, the normal distribution) to evaluate the evidence the sample provides.

### Critical Region

The critical region for a test is the set of all values of the test statistic that cause us to reject the null hypothesis. The boundary (or boundaries) for the critical region are critical values, which we learned about in the previous module. The critical values separate the critical region (the region where we reject the null hypothesis) from the values of the test statistic that do not lead to rejecting the null hypothesis.

### Significance Level

The significance level, which we denote as $\alpha$, is the probability that the test statistic will fall in the critical region when the null hypothesis is actually true. If the test statistic falls in the critical region, we reject the null hypothesis, so $\alpha$, is the probability that we reject the null hypothesis when it is actually true, which is a mistake. This is the same $\alpha$ we used when defining confidence levels using $1-\alpha$ in the previous module.

The critical values and the shape of the critical region will depend on whether we are doing a one-tailed or two-tailed test, the significance level, and the sampling distribution (Standard Normal, $t$, Chi-Squared, $F$, etc.)

