## Critical Regions and Critical Values

As stated, critical values and the shape of the critical region will depend on whether we are doing a one-tailed or two-tailed test, the significance level, and the sampling distribution - in the case of this module (a test for means) this is either the Standard Normal Distribution or the t Distribution which are both bell-shaped.

Since both are bell-shaped lets look at the critical regions for the three different possible alternative hypotheses using a 5% significance level and the Standard Normal distribution. When we use the $t$ Distribution the picture will not change only the numerical value of the critical value(s).

If the alternative is greater than ($\gt$), the critical region will be to the right of the center. This is a one-tailed test, specifically, a _right-tailed test_.

For the one-sided test, the critical value will cut off an area equal to the significance level, 0.05 in this case. For a right-tailed test, we will always have a positive critical value, which cuts off an area in the right tail of the curve.

### Examples

#### Example 1 (Right-Tailed Test)

**Problem:** Find the critical value for a right-tailed test with $\alpha=0.05$ and the Standard Normal Distribution as the sample distribution.

**Solution:** The critical value separates an area of $\alpha=0.05$ in the right tail of the Standard Normal Distribution. 
- To find the $Z$-value, find $1-\alpha=1-0.05=0.95$
- Look in the body of [Table A.3](./Resources/Table_A3.pdf) for the closest value to $.9500$ and find $.9495$ and $.9505$, which have corresponding $Z$-values of $1.64$ and $1.65$
- Calculating the average, we get $\frac{1.64+1.65}{2}=1.645$

If the alternative is less than ($\lt$), the critical region will be to the left of the center. This is a one-tailed test, specifically, a _left-tailed test_.

For a left-tailed test, we will always have a negative critical value, which cuts off an in the left tail of the curve.

#### Example 2 (Left-Tailed Test)

**Problem:** Find the critical value for a left-tailed test with $\alpha=0.05$ and the Standard Normal Distribution as the sample distribution.

**Solution:** The critical value separates an area of $\alpha=0.05$ in the left tail of the Standard Normal Distribution
- Look inside the body of [Table A.3](./Resources/Table_A3.pdf) for the closest value to $.0500$ and find $.0505$ and $.0495$ which have corresponding $Z$-values of $-1.64$ and $-1.65$.
- Calculating the average, we get $\frac{-1.64+-1.65}{2}=1.645$

If the alternative is not equals ($\neq$), the critical region will be divided into two pieces: one in the left tail, and one in the right tail. Each piece of the critical region will have an area that is half of the significance level. This is a two-tailed test.

For the two-tailed test, there are two critical values, and the critical region includes a piece in the left tail and a piece in the right tail, each with an area that is half of the significance level. Note that 

1) The critical value for the right tail will be the positive version of the left critical value, and 
2) These two critical values correspond to the critical values from finding a confidence interval.

#### Example 3 (Two-Tailed Test)

**Problem:** Find the critical value for a two-tailed test with $\alpha=0.05$ and the Standard Normal Distribution as the sample distribution.

**Solution:** A two-tailed test has two critical values, one negative and one positive. The negative critical value separates an area of $\frac{\alpha}{2}=\frac{.05}{2}=.025$ in the left tail of the Standard Normal Distribution.
- Look inside [Table A.3](./Resources/Table_A3.pdf) for the closest value to $.0250$ and find the exact value, which has a corresponding $Z$-value of $-1.96$. Using symmetry, the positive critical value is $1.96$.
