## Wording the Final Conclusion

Once we make the decision to reject or fail to reject the null hypothesis, we need to state conclusions in the context of the problem. The information below provides a guide for how to write the final conclusion:

1. Does the original claim contain the condition of the equality?
2. If YES, do you reject the $H_{0}$?
	- If YES, you reject $H_{0}$, "there is sufficient evidence to warrant the rejection of the claim that... (original claim)." This is the only case where the original claim is _rejected_
	- If NO, you fail to reject $H_{0}$, "there is _not_ sufficient evidence to warrant rejection of the claim that... (original claim)"
3. If NO, do you reject the $H_{0}$? (The original claim does not contain the equality and becomes $H_{1}$)
	- If YES, you reject $H_{0}$, "the sample data supports the claim that... (original claim)." This is the only case where the original claim is _supported_
	- If NO, you fail to reject $H_{0}$, "there is not sufficient sample evidence to support the claim that... (original claim)."

### Example

**Problem:** A manufacturer of a certain brand of rice cereal claims that the average saturated fat content per serving is less than 1.5 grams per serving. You conduct a hypothesis test to evaluate this claim and reject the null hypothesis. What are the hypotheses tested? What are the conclusions?

**Solution:**

$H_{0}:\mu=1.5$
$H_{1}:\mu<1.5$

In this case, the original claim became the alternative hypothesis (the null always contains the equality) and we rejected the null. Thus, we can say that

The sample data supports the claim that the average saturated fat is less than 1.5 grams per serving for this brand of rice cereal.