## Traditional Method

We have already generally discussed each of the steps in conducting a hypothesis test. Now, we want to formalize the procedure. There are three different approaches to hypothesis testing: the Traditional Method, $p$-value Method, and Confidence Interval Method.

### Steps to Conduct a Traditional Method Hypothesis Test

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses
2. Determine the fixed significance level, $\alpha$, of the test (as a student, this will typically be given to you, whereas a researcher would set $\alpha$ based on how much error you are willing to accept).
3. Choose and calculate the appropriate test statistic. Establish the critical region and critical value(s) based on $\alpha$.
4. Make the statistical decision - 
	- If the test statistic falls within the critical region, _reject $H_{0}$_
		- In this case, the test statistic is farther away from the center than the critical value, so it is outside of the range of values that support the null hypothesis.
	- If the test statistic does not fall in the critical region, _fail to reject $H_{0}$.
6. State your conclusions.

### Recap Making the Decision using the Traditional (Critical Region) Method

- Uses the significance level $\alpha$

If the test statistic falls within the critical region, _reject $H_{0}$_. In this case, the test statistic is farther away from the center than the critical value, so it is outside of the range of values that support the null hypothesis.

If the test statistic falls outside of the critical region, _fail to reject $H_{0}$_.