## Orthogonality: Definition, Examples

### Orthogonality

Let $S=\{\vec{u_{1}},\dots,\vec{u_{k}}\}$ be an indexed set of vectors in $R^n$. We say that
- $S$ is an _orthogonal_ set if $\vec{u_{i}} \cdot \vec{u_{j}}=0$ for all $i \neq j$,
- $S$ is an _orthonormal_ set if $S$ is orthogonal and $\mid \mid \vec{u_{i}} \mid \mid=1$ for all $i$

If $S$ is an orthogonal (orthonormal) set that forms a basis for a space $V$ then $S$ is called an _orthogonal (orthonormal) basis_ for $V$.

### Example 1

Is $S_{1}=\{\begin{bmatrix}1 \\ 2 \\ 1\end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix}-2 \\ 1 \\ 0\end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix}1 \\ 2 \\ -5\end{bmatrix}\}$ an orthogonal set? If so, is it also orthonormal?

#### Solution

We first need to check if $\begin{bmatrix}1 \\ 2 \\ 1\end{bmatrix} \cdot \begin{bmatrix}-2 \\ 1 \\ 0\end{bmatrix}=0?$

$\begin{bmatrix}1 \\ 2 \\ 1\end{bmatrix} \cdot \begin{bmatrix}-2 \\ 1 \\ 0\end{bmatrix}=0$

Now, we need to check if $\begin{bmatrix}1 \\ 2 \\ 1\end{bmatrix} \cdot \begin{bmatrix}1 \\ 2 \\ -5\end{bmatrix}=0?$

$\begin{bmatrix}1 \\ 2 \\ 1\end{bmatrix} \cdot \begin{bmatrix}1 \\ 2 \\ -5\end{bmatrix}=0$

Last, we need to check if $\begin{bmatrix}-2 \\ 1 \\ 0\end{bmatrix} \cdot \begin{bmatrix}1 \\ 2 \\ -5\end{bmatrix}=0?$

$\begin{bmatrix}-2 \\ 1 \\ 0\end{bmatrix} \cdot \begin{bmatrix}1 \\ 2 \\ -5\end{bmatrix}=0$

Therefore, _yes_ the set is orthogonal.

Is it orthonormal? We must look at the length of each vector to determine this:

$\mid \mid \begin{bmatrix}1 \\ 2 \\ 1\end{bmatrix} \mid \mid~=\sqrt{ 1^2 + 2^2 + 1^2 }=\sqrt{ 6 } \neq 1$

Given that the first vector does not hold, the set is _not_ orthonormal.

Thus, the set is orthogonal but not orthonormal.

### Example 2

Is the set $S_{2} = \{\begin{bmatrix}\frac{1}{2} \\ \frac{1}{2} \\ \frac{1}{2} \\ \frac{1}{2} \end{bmatrix},\begin{bmatrix}-\frac{1}{2} \\ -\frac{1}{2} \\ \frac{1}{2} \\ \frac{1}{2}\end{bmatrix}\}$ orthogonal? If so, is it also orthonormal?

#### Solution

We need to check if $\begin{bmatrix}\frac{1}{2} \\ \frac{1}{2} \\ \frac{1}{2} \\ \frac{1}{2} \end{bmatrix} \cdot \begin{bmatrix}-\frac{1}{2} \\ -\frac{1}{2} \\ \frac{1}{2} \\ \frac{1}{2}\end{bmatrix}=0?$

$\begin{bmatrix}\frac{1}{2} \\ \frac{1}{2} \\ \frac{1}{2} \\ \frac{1}{2} \end{bmatrix} \cdot \begin{bmatrix}-\frac{1}{2} \\ -\frac{1}{2} \\ \frac{1}{2} \\ \frac{1}{2}\end{bmatrix}= 0$

Therefore, $S_{2}$ is an orthogonal set. Is it orthonormal?

$\mid \mid \begin{bmatrix}\frac{1}{2} \\ \frac{1}{2} \\ \frac{1}{2} \\ \frac{1}{2}\end{bmatrix} \mid \mid~=\sqrt{ \frac{1}{2}^2 + \frac{1}{2}^2 + \frac{1}{2}^2 + \frac{1}{2}^2 }=\sqrt{ \frac{1}{4} + \frac{1}{4} + \frac{1}{4} + \frac{1}{4} } = 1=\begin{bmatrix}-\frac{1}{2} \\ -\frac{1}{2} \\ \frac{1}{2} \\ \frac{1}{2}\end{bmatrix}$

Thus, the set is both orthogonal and orthonormal.

### Example 3

Is the set $S_{3}=\{\begin{bmatrix}3 \\ 2\end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix}-2 \\ 3\end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix}2 \\ 2\end{bmatrix}\}$ orthogonal? If so, is it orthonormal?

#### Solution

First, we need to check if $\begin{bmatrix}3 \\ 2\end{bmatrix} \cdot \begin{bmatrix} -2 \\ 3\end{bmatrix}=0?$

$\begin{bmatrix}3 \\ 2\end{bmatrix} \cdot \begin{bmatrix} -2 \\ 3\end{bmatrix}=0$

Next, we need to check if $\begin{bmatrix}3 \\ 2\end{bmatrix} \cdot \begin{bmatrix}2 \\ 2\end{bmatrix}=0?$

$\begin{bmatrix}3 \\ 2\end{bmatrix} \cdot \begin{bmatrix}2 \\ 2\end{bmatrix}=10 \neq 0$

Therefore, the set is _not_ orthogonal
