## Methods: Functions and Method Variables

### Method Variables

#### Writing Methods

Methods are essentially syntactically-sugared functions. Here's how to define them using a `person` struct:

```go
type person struct {
	name string
	age int
}
```

We can then add a method called `displayName` to our `person` type:

```go
func (p person) displayName() {
	fmt.Printf("My name is %s", p.name)
}
```

This method is a _value receiver_, which means it operates on a copy of the invoking `person` object and is used for operations that don't modify the object.

For demonstration, let's create a `setAge` _pointer receiver_ method. This type of receiver can modify the original object directly.

However,

> [!Warning]
> 
> We do _NOT_ write getters/setters like this in real Go code.

This type of receiver can modify the original object directly:

```go
func (p *person) setAge(age int) {
	p.age = age
	fmt.Printf("%s is %d years old.", p.name, p.age)
}
```

#### Calling Methods

Here's how to invoke these methods:

```go
func main() {
	me := person{
		name: "Clayton"
	}

	fmt.Println("Proper method calls:")

	me.displayName()
	me.setAge(20)
}
```

Internally, Go translates these calls into:

```go
person.displayName(me)
(*person).setAge(&me, 20)
```

### Function Variables (Decoupling)

#### `displayName`

The title of this section is decoupling. Let's explore this idea with function variables. Consider this scenario:

```go
// The function variable will gets its own copy of 'me'
// because displayName uses a value receiver
f1 := me.displayName

// Call the method via the variable
f1()

// Change the value of 'me'
me.name = "John"

// Call the method via the variable again and notice no change
f1()
```

When assigning `displayName` to `f1`, we are not calling the method but creating a _reference_ to it. This reference includes a pointer to the method's code and a _copy_ of the `me` object as it existed at the time of assignment. Changes to `me` do not affect `f1` because it operates on this initial copy.

#### `setAge`

For a method that modifies the object:

```go
// The function variable will directly modify 'me'
// because setAge uses a pointer receiver
f2 := me.setAge

// Call the method via the variable
f2(30)

// Change the value of 'me'
me.name = "Sam"

// Call the method via the variable and notice the change
f2(30)
```

Here, `f2` contains a pointer to both the `setAge` method's code and to `me`. Because `f2` is linked directly to the original `me`, any changes to `me` will be reflected when `f2` is called.

### Final Thoughts

Decoupling introduces _indirection_ and may require additional _allocations_. These costs impact runtime performance because of increased heap usage, which engages the garbage collector, potentially introducing latency.

Regardless of the semantic used, decoupling still costs us. However, we only need our apps fast enough, so as long as we make productive choices, we want to pay the costs for for a better experience.
