## Variances Unknown but Equal

Generally, the methods for Critical Regions, Critical Values, and $p$-values have still not changed. We only changed the formula used to calculate the test statistic and the degrees of freedom. For this next example, we are going to use the $p$-value Method to test the difference between 2 means when the population variances are _unknown but equal_.

#### Recall the Steps to Conduct a $p$-value Method Hypothesis Test

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses.
2. Choose and calculate an appropriate test statistic.
3. Calculate a test statistic.
4. Compute the $p$-value based on the value of the test statistic and appropriate sampling distribution.
5. Make a statistical decision by comparing the $p$-value to the significance level of the test.
6. State conclusions.

### Example

**Problem:** A manufacturer claims that the average tensile strength of thread A exceeds the average tensile strength of thread B by at least 12 kilograms. To test this claim, 50 pieces of each type of thread were tested under similar conditions. Type A thread had an average tensile strength of 86.7 kilograms with a standard deviation of 6.28 kilograms, while type B thread had an average tensile strength of 77.8 kilograms with a standard deviation of 5.61 kilograms. Assume both distributions of tensile strength are normally distributed with a common variance. Test the claim using the $p$-value method and a significance level of 5%.

**Solution:**

1. State the null and alternative hypothesis:

$$H_{0}:\mu_{1}-\mu_{2}=12$$

$$H_{1}:\mu_{1}-\mu_{2}>12$$

2. Choose and calculate the appropriate test statistic:

Since the population variances are unknown but equal, this is a $t$ test.

We calculate the pooled sample variance as:

$$s_{p}^2=\frac{(n_{1}-1)s_{1}^2+(n_{2}-1)s_{2}^2}{n_{1}+n_{2}-2}=\frac{(50-1)(6.28^2)+(50-1)(5.61^2)}{50+50-2}=35.45525$$

Therefore, $s_{p}=\sqrt{ s_{p}^2 }=\sqrt{ 35.45525 }=5.9544$

We calculate the test statistic as:

$$t=\frac{(\overline x_{1}-\overline x_{2})-d_{0}}{s_{p}\sqrt{ \frac{1}{n_{1}}+\frac{1}{n_{2}} }}$$

$$t=\frac{(86.7-77.8)-12}{5.9544\sqrt{ \frac{1}{50}+\frac{1}{50} }}$$

$$t=-2.60$$

Therefore, our test statistic is $t=-2.60$.

3. Compute the $p$-value:

We are going to use a $t$ Distribution with $\nu=n_{1}+n_{2}-2=50+50-2=98$ to calculate the $p$-value because the population variances are unknown but equal

This is a _right-tailed_ test since the alternative is greater than. However, our test statistic is negative. We know that the center of a $t$ is 0 and 50% of the are under the curve is to the right of 0. Therefore, we know that the area to the right of our negative test statistic is more than .50.

$$p>.50$$

4. Make a statistical decision:

The decision is to _fail to reject_ $H_{0}$ since the $p$-value is greater than $.05$

5. State Conclusions

The sample data does _not_ support the claim that the average tensile strength of thread A exceeds the average tensile strength of thread B by at least 12 kilograms.

> [!Note]
> 
> We did not need to use Table A.4 to determine a sufficient range for the $p$-value to make a decision.

