## Variances Known

Generally, the methods for Critical Regions, Critical Values, and $p$-values have not changed. We only changed the formula used to calculate the test statistic. For this next example, we are going to use the Traditional Method to test the difference between 2 means when the population standard deviations are known.

#### Recall the Steps to Conduct a Traditional Method Hypothesis Test

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses.
2. Determine the fixed significance level, $\alpha$, of the test (as a student this will typically be given to you - as a researcher you would set $\alpha$ based on how much error you are willing to accept).
3. Choose and calculate the appropriate test statistic. Establish the critical region and critical value(s) based on $\alpha$.
4. Make the statistical decision - if the test statistic falls in the critical region, _reject_ $H_{0}$; if the test statistic does not fall in the critical region, _fail to reject_ $H_{0}$.
5. State conclusions.

### Example

**Problem:** A researcher is interested in species diversity of two different wetland areas. She claims that wetland 1 has higher species diversity than wetland 2. A random sample of size 25, taken from wetland 1 has a mean of 80. A second random sample of size 36, is taken from wetland 2 and has a mean of 75. Assume the population standard deviation for wetland 1 is 5 and the population standard deviation for wetland 2 is 3. Test the researcher's claim using the Traditional Method and a significance level of 5%.

**Solution:**

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses:

$$H_{0}:\mu_{1}-\mu_{2}=0$$

$$H_{1}:\mu_{1}-\mu_{2}>0$$

2. Determine the fixed significance level, $\alpha$:

$$\alpha=.05$$

3. Calculate the test statistic:

Since the population standard deviations are known, this is a $Z$ test

$$Z=\frac{(\overline x_{1} - \overline x_{2})-d_{0}}{\sqrt{ \frac{\sigma_{1}^2}{\frac{n_{1}+\sigma_{2}^2}{n_{2}}} }}$$

$$Z=\frac{(80-75)-0}{\sqrt{ \frac{5^2}{\frac{25+3^2}{36}} }}$$

$$Z=4.47$$

Find the critical region and critical value:

- **Critical Area:** The critical area in the tail (often $\alpha=.05$) is what we aim to exceed to reject the null hypothesis
- **Finding the Critical Value:**
	- Use [Table A.3](./Resources/Table_A3.pdf) to locate the $Z$-value that corresponds to the cumulative area to the left of the critical value
	- For an area of $.9500$ to the left (since $1-.05=.9500$), the critical $Z$-values found are $1.64$ and $1.65$, corresponding to areas of $.9495$ and $.9505$, respectively.
	- Since these values bracket $.9500$, we average them to determine a precise critical value: $\frac{1.64+1.65}{2}=1.645$

4. Make the statistical decisionL

Since the test statistic falls within the critical region, we reject $H_{0}$.

5. State Conclusions

There is enough evidence to support the claim that wetland 1 has higher species diversity than wetland 2.