## Variances Unknown and Unequal

The methods for Critical Regions, Critical Values, and $p$-values have still not changed. We only changed the formula used to calculate the test statistic and the formula to calculate the degrees of freedom. For this next example, we are going to use the Traditional Method to test the difference between 2 means when the population variances are  _unknown and unequal_.

#### Recall the Steps to Conduct a Traditional Method Hypothesis Test

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses.
2. Determine the fixed significance level, $\alpha$, of the test (as a student this will typically be given to you - as a researcher you would set $\alpha$ based on how much error you are willing to accept).
3. Choose and calculate the appropriate test statistic. Establish the critical region and critical value(s) based on $\alpha$.
4. Make the statistical decision - if the test statistic falls in the critical region, _reject_ $H_{0}$; if the test statistic does not fall in the critical region, _fail to reject_ $H_{0}$.
5. State conclusions.

### Example

**Problem:** An experiment reported in Popular Science compared fuel economies for two types of similarly equipped diesel mini-trucks. Let us suppose that 12 Volkswagen and 10 Toyota trucks were tested in 90 kilometer-per-hour steady-paced trials. If the 12 Volkswagen trucks averaged 16 kilometers per liter with a standard deviation of 1.0 kilometer per liter and the 10 Toyota trucks averaged 11 kilometers per liter with a standard deviation of 0.8 kilometer per liter, test the hypothesis that the fuel economy of Volkswagen mini-trucks, on average, exceeds that of similarly equipped Toyota mini-trucks by 4 kilometers per liter. Use a 0.10 level of significance and the Traditional Method. You may not assume that the variances are equal.

**Solution:**

1. State the null and alternative hypotheses:

$$H_{0}:\mu_{1}-\mu_{2}=4$$

$$H_{1}:\mu_{1}-\mu_{2}>4$$

2. Determine the fixed significance level, $\alpha$:

$$\alpha=.10$$

3. Calculate the test statistic:

Since the population variances are unknown and unequal, this is a $t$ test with degrees of freedom


$$t'=\frac{(\overline x_{1}-\overline x_{2})-d_{0}}{\sqrt{\frac{s_{1}^2}{n_{1}}+\frac{s_{2}^2}{n_{2}}}}$$

$$t'=\frac{(16-11)-4}{\sqrt{ \frac{1.0^2}{12}+\frac{.8^2}{10} }}$$

$$t'=2.61$$

Find the critical region and critical value:

This is a _right-tailed test_ since the alternative is greater than. Find the critical values using [Table A.4](./Resources/Table_A4.pdf) as follows:

- Use the _row_ corresponding to degree of freedom:
- $$\nu=\frac{(\frac{s_{1}^2}{n_{1}}+\frac{s_{2}^2}{n_{2}})^2}{\frac{(\frac{s_{1}^2}{n_{1}})^2}{n_{1}-1}+\frac{(\frac{s_{2}^2}{n_{2}})^2}{n_{2}-1}}=\frac{(\frac{1.0^2}{12}+\frac{.8^2}{10})^2}{\frac{(\frac{1.0^2}{12})^2}{12-1}+\frac{(\frac{.8^2}{10})^2}{10-1}}=19.980\dots$$

Round down to $\nu=19$

- Use the _column_ corresponding to $\alpha=.10$
- A right-tailed test has one positive critical value, therefore the critical $t$value is $+1.328$

4. Make the statistical decisionL

Since the test statistic fall _within_ the critical region, we _reject_ $H_{0}$.

5. State Conclusions

There is enough evidence to support the claim that the fuel economy of Volkswagen mini-trucks, on average, exceeds that of similarly equipped Toyota mini-trucks by 4 kilometers per liter.

