## Null and Alternative Hypotheses

A researcher is interested in species diversity of two different wetland areas. She claims that wetland 1 has higher species diversity than wetland 2. Let's look at how the researcher will set up to test her claim.

Just like for claims concerning a single population mean, for claims concerning the difference between 2 population means, the first step is to write the hypothesis.

The **null hypothesis** is represented by $H_0$ and will be a statement that the difference between the two population means is equal to some value. The null hypothesis for the difference between two means can generally be written as

$$H_{0}:\mu_{1}-\mu_{2}=d_{0}$$

The **alternative hypothesis** represented by $H_{A}$ or $H_{1}$ is the statement that the difference between the two population means has a value that differs from the null hypothesis. The three possibilities for the alternative hypothesis can be written as

$$H_{1}:\mu_{1}-\mu_{2}\neq d_{0}$$

$$H_{1}:\mu_{1}-\mu_{2} < d_{0}$$

$$H_{1}:\mu_{1}-\mu_{2} > d_{0}$$

### Examples

#### Example 1

**Problem:** Let's go back to the researcher stated previously. She is interested in species diversity of two different wetland areas and claims that wetland 1 has higher species diversity than wetland 2. Write the null and alternative hypotheses for testing this claim.

**Solution:** 

This is an example of a one-tailed alternative. The null and alternative hypotheses would be

$$H_{0}:\mu_{1}-\mu_{2}=0$$

$$H_{1}:\mu_{1}-\mu_{2}>0$$

This is a _right-tailed_ hypothesis test.

In this example, $d_{0}=0$ because if the two means were equal, then the difference in means would be 0.

#### Example 2

**Problem:** A manufacturer claims that the average tensile strength of thread A exceeds the average tensile strength of thread B by at least 12 kilograms. Write the null and alternative hypotheses for testing this claim.

**Solution:**

This is another one-tailed test, specifically a _right-tailed_ test.

$$H_{0}:\mu_{1}-\mu_{2}=12$$

$$H_{1}:\mu_{1}-\mu_{2}>12$$

Here, $d_{0}=12$ as the difference between the two means is claimed to be more than 12 kilograms.

