- - -
Recall from the previous module, a binomial probability distribution allows one to deal with circumstances in which the outcomes belong to **two** relevant categories, such as acceptable/defective, survived/died, or boy/girl. In general, we call the two categories _Success_ and _Failure_. The **binomial random variable**, say $X$, counted the number of _Successes_ in $n$ independent and identical trials.

In the special case when $n=1$, $X$ has a **Bernoulli distribution** where the random variable takes on the value of 1 with probability $p$ and the value of 0 with probability $q=1-p$. In other words, this is the probability of asking a single yes/no question.
$$f(x)=p^xq^{1-x},~x=0,1$$
- - -
Consider an experiment with the same properties as a **binomial experiment**, except for the trials will be repeated until a fixed number of _Successes_ occur. In a binomial experiment we are interested in the probability of $x$ _Successes_ in a fixed number of trials ($n$), now we are interested in the probability that the $k^{th}$ _Success_ occurs on the $x^{th}$ trial. This type of experiment is called a **negative binomial experiment**.

A **negative** **binomial experiment** must satisfy the following requirements:
- The experiment consists of independent and identical (iid) trials.
- Each trial has 2 possible outcomes called _Success_ and ****_Failure_**.**
- The per trial probability, $p$, that a _Success_ occurs must remain constant for each trial.
- The main interest of the experiment is to count the number of trials it takes to get to the $k^{th}$ _Success_.

Here we are observing a sequence of Bernoulli trials until exactly $k$ _Successes_ occur, where $k$ is a fixed positive integer.