- - -
### Complexity of Algorithms
How efficient is an algorithm?

To answer this question, we must ask
- How much time does the algorithm take to solve a problem?
- How much computer memory does the algorithm use to solve a problem?

This questions lead to 2 analyses:

**Time Analysis:** The **_time complexity_** of the algorithm
**Memory Analysis:** The **_space complexity_** of the algorithm.

In this course, we'll focus on the time analysis.

- - -
### Analyzing Time Complexity
To analyze the time complexity of algorithms, we will:
1. Measure the time complexity in terms of the number of **basic operations** an algorithm uses
	- Basic operations include **comparisons** and *arithmetic* operations (multiplication, modulus, etc.)
2. Ignore minor details, such as the "house keeping" aspects of the algorithm
3. Use **Big-O** and **Big-Theta** notation to estimate the time complexity
	- We'll want to favor Big-Theta over Big-O since it provides estimates for both the best and worst case scenarios. If Big-Theta cannot be calculated, Big-O will do.
4. Focus on the **worst-case time complexity**
	- This provides an upper bound on the number of operations an algorithm uses to solve a problem

> [!note]
> It is worth mentioning that is it usually much more difficult to determine the **average-case time complexity** of an algorithm

- - -
### Example 1
Describe the time complexity of the algorithm that finds the maximum element in a finite sequence.

**Pseudocode:**
**procedure** _max_($a_{1}, a_{2}, \dots, a_{n}$: integers)
  $max := a_1$
  **for** $i:= 2$ **to** $n$
    **if** $max < a_i$ **then** $max := a_i$
  **return** $max${max is the largest element}

### Solution
Count the number of comparisons:
- The $max < a_i$ comparison is made $n-2$ times
- Each time $i$ is incremented, a test is made to see if $i\leq n$
- One last comparison determines that $i>n$
- **Exactly** $2(n-1)+1=2n-1$ comparisons are made

Hence, the time complexity of this algorithm is $\Theta(n)$

- - -
### Example 2
Determine the time complexity of the linear search algorithm.

**Pseudocode:**
**procedure** _linearsearch_($x$: integer, $a_1$, $a_2$, ..., $a_n$: distinct integers)
$i := 1$
**while** ($i\leq n$ **and** $x\neq a_{i}$)
   $i:=i+1$
**if** $i\leq n$ **then** $location := i$
**else** $location := 0$
**return** $location${location is the subscript of the term that equals $x$, or is 0 if $x$ is not found}

### Solution
Count the number of comparisons:
- At each step, two comparisons are made: $i\leq n$ and $x\neq a_{i}$
- To end the loop, one more $i\leq n$ comparison is made
- After the loop, one more $i\leq n$ comparison is made

If $x=a_{i}$, $2i+1$ comparisons are used. If $x$ is not on the list, $2n+1$ comparisons are made and then an additional comparison is used to exit the loop. So, in the worst case, $2n+2$ comparisons are made. Hence, the time complexity is $\Theta(n)$

- - -
### Common Terminology
| Complexity                 | Terminology             |
| -------------------------- | ----------------------- |
| $\Theta(1)$                | Constant Complexity     |
| $\Theta(\log n)$           | Logarithmic Complexity  |
| $\Theta(n)$                | Linear Complexity       |
| $\Theta(n\log n)$          | Linearithmic Complexity |
| $\Theta(n^b)$              | Polynomial Complexity   |
| $\Theta(b^n)$, where $b>1$ | Exponential Complexity  |
| $\Theta(n!)$               | Factorial Complexity    |
